The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Edgars taps Avatar DBN as TTL agency Avatar DBN, formerly Espresso DBN, has been
appointed as the through-the-line advertising agency for Edgars. Edgars was
recently bought from Edcon by Durban-based operation Retailability, which has a
proven track record of shifting ailing businesses such as Legit from loss to
profit-generating retail brands. With this change of ownership, the Edgars
business faced challenges in both regaining lost customers, and in growing the
brand sustainably into the future. Both challenges present tremendous
opportunities to renew its brand values, personality and purpose, and
build new equity in a broader target market in line with Retailability’s vision. “Our focus is now on integrating the Edgars
stores into the rest of the business while ensuring that the Edgar’s brand
stays relevant. Choosing an agency partner was a critical step in this
new journey,” said Norman
Drieselmann, CEO of Retailability. Antony Ellis, managing director of Avatar DBN, said the appointment means more than just winning a new client. “Edgars is a heritage brand in South African retail, and despite a rough few years, deserves its place in our retail economy. We’ve taken this brief as a responsibility in not only returning Edgars to top-of-mind status, but to play an important part in repositioning the brand for the future with relevant new thinking and vibrant creative work that changes minds.” Avatar DBN joined Avatar Agency Group, the
largest fully black-owned agency group in South Africa, in August this year.
“As a Group, we are proud to see our fantastic team in Durban demonstrating the
necessary grit and resilience to navigate the current challenging environment –
especially for retail – and share in our positive view of the future,” said Zibusiso Mkhwanazi, Group CEO of M&N
Brands and Avatar Agency Group. People moves Tarin-Lee
Watts joins The Media and The Media Online team Business development specialist Tarin-Lee
Watts has joined The Media and The Media Online, and will be taking up her
position fulltime on 1 December. Watts replaces Kalyn Fagan, who leaves to take
up a new challenge in the media sector. “I have been in the media space all my
career. Reflecting on my years of work, I believe it is clear to see my passion
in the projects I have put my name to, helped conceptualized and create in both
print and digital platforms,” says Watts. “I have worked on incredible
projects with Sunday Times as well as Business Day for the last eight years.
The focus of my projects has been across a broad spectrum of topics I am very
passionate about. These titles focus on issues such as climate change and
sustainability, global access to the internet, information technologies, supply
chain management, engineering, consulting, security & safety, and my real
passion, education.” Watts has also worked in the out of home
sector. “The opportunity took me right out of my comfort zone and the
experience I gained helped build many of the fundamental filters and
strategies I still apply today. I love what I do, and I have a steady
source of motivation that always drives me to do my best,” she adds. The Media and The Media Online are trusted brands
servicing media brands and media professionals across the different sectors.
Independent, intelligent, credible and authoritative, the publications keep the
industry informed and updated on all things media. “I am very excited to engage with all media
sectors and celebrate the diversity within the media industry. I look
forward to adding to the conversation starters and how I can add value to the
online media platform while working with clients across all platforms in
media,” Watts says. Outside of work she love the outdoors,
nature, adventure, animals and a good music. “Having a healthy work life
balance is important for me. I work hard and I play hard.” Her business philosophy is based on the
Simon Sinek principle that, “People don’t buy what you do. They buy why you do
it.” To discuss commercial opportunities and
packages, Tarin is contactable on twatts@themediaonline.co.za Bongiwe Nzuza joins Tribeca as account manager Tribeca Public Relations (Tribeca) has appointed
Bongiwe (Bongi) Nzuza as account manager, working on accounts as diverse as Vumatel, Red Bull,
McAfee,
Webfleet,
and Imvelisi. Nzuza joins Tribeca with significant experience
across traditional and new media, in media relations and content creation, and
brings a wealth of knowledge gained from working across diverse consumer,
business to business, financial services, and hospitality brands to the
award-winning agency. “Bongi joined us at the height of lockdown, and
has become a dependable and trusted member of the team despite working remotely
for the first few months,” says Nicola Tarr, business unit director at Tribeca.
“Her energy and imagination have already brought significant value to the
accounts she works on, and we’re so glad that she’s part of Tribeca!” The agency’s newest account manager holds a Diploma in Media Practices, majoring in Public Relations, from Boston Media House, and she has worked previously in private and public sector communications teams. Are you the next The MediaShop Johannesburg MD? [SPONSORED POST] The MediaShop Johannesburg is an agency steeped in local and international recognition. Now the company is ready to expand its team again with the appointment of a Managing Director to head its flagship office. “Our agency is known for being innovative and pioneering, and our next Johannesburg based leader will need to match those qualities and more, including having a firm grasp of the South African cultural and consumer landscape,” says Chris Botha, Group Managing Director of Park Advertising. The successful candidate will be supported by an established team of highly capable staff and management. “The person leading us into 2021 and beyond will be someone with unwavering integrity, creativity and insights- and evidence-based thought processes,” adds Chris. “This is an exciting opportunity to head up one of the most award-winning media agencies in the country and we’re looking forward to interviewing potential candidates.” Interested applicants are invited to submit their CV’s to Ayanda Mda at Ayanda.mda@parkadvertising.co.za before the end of November. Business moves Vodacom thanks Ogilvy for successful five-year partnership Vodacom and Ogilvy have jointly announced that
their fruitful five-year partnership will conclude at the end of March 2021. “We are highly appreciative of the
professionalism and the work done for Vodacom by Ogilvy South Africa,” said
Vodacom’s chief officer of consumer business, Jorge Mendes. “This has been a highly successful partnership
during challenging times for the telecommunications industry. Our internal
procurement regulations required that after five years the account be reviewed
and that we consider rotating the business for the next term as part of our
governance procedures.” Newly appointed group CEO of Ogilvy South Africa, Enver Groenewald, said the agency was proud to have been part of Vodacom’s successes during which its subscribers grew to 41.3 million, 17% ahead of their nearest rival. “As a level 1 BEE black majority owned business
we are proud of the work done on the account. At the heart of any good agency’s
work is the ability to assist clients drive their business forward and deliver
value to shareholders. We have managed to do that since we were appointed,” he
said. “We understand that internal procedures within
the Vodacom group resulted in the account being reviewed. We are disappointed
not to continue with this highly valued client but we respect their decisions
and thank them for the opportunity.” BCW Africa now 51% black-owned BCW Africa has announced that it has concluded the
final transaction that brings its black shareholding to 51%. BCW Africa is
headquartered in Johannesburg and is the hub for the BCW (Burson Cohn &
Wolfe) branded partner network across the continent. BCW and BCW Africa are
part of WPP, a creative transformation company. Commenting on the transaction, BCW Africa founder and CEO, Robyn de Villiers said:  “While we qualify as a qualifying small Enterprise (QSE) in terms of the Marketing Advertising and Communications Charter (MAC) and are therefore not required to attain a 51% black shareholding, we believe that concluding this transaction shows our commitment not only to the needs of the country, but also to our large clients for whom the 51% shareholding is important. “Our black shareholding is held in two trusts which
were established for the benefit of our previously disadvantaged team members
as well as the staff of the other WPP companies operating in South Africa.” In October 2020, BCW Africa extended its 20+ year
old, well-known Starting Blocks Internship Programme across the continent,
going virtual for the first time and attracting 45 participants hailing from 10
countries across Africa – Uganda, Kenya, Rwanda, Mauritius, Eswatini, Cote
d’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria, Morocco and South Africa. Bonang Matheba partners with MTN to expand on her mobile app content Award winning media
personality and entrepreneur, Bonang Matheba, has partnered with
Africa’s largest telecoms operator, MTN, with her soon-to-launch
mobile app, Bonang Matheba’s World.
MTN currently services 250 million
customers in 21 countries. “As my world continues to grow, expand and
innovate, I am especially honoured to partner with MTN and leverage this
development in the mobile digital content space. I’m excited to be able to
reach more fans and engage with them directly on Bonang Matheba’s World,” said Matheba. Bonang Matheba’s World
on MTN presents an exclusive mix of
video, music playlists, curated images and additional Bonang lifestyle-specific
content, including behind the scenes footage, events and photoshoots,
her personal favorite products, from make-up to hair styling and fashion
trends, to select daily affirmations, self-growth, health tips and business
advice. Siya Kolisi assembles a legion of stars in new
DStv creative campaign Siya Kolisi gathered a super crew of big names in
a new creative campaign
that highlights DStv’s launch of its next generation decoder, the DStv Explora Ultra. The next generation decoder offers customers an
enhanced viewing experience and the best available local and international
content from DStv – Africa’s Most Loved Storyteller – and Showmax. As part of the new experience, Netflix will be
available for the first time on the Explora Ultra decoder. The campaign, shot in Cape Town, saw Siya assemble an Ocean’s Eleven-style squad in the television and film industry, and sports fraternity. Big names in the key TVC include: In a second iteration of the campaign, Siya
summoned a constellation of international stars – this time from streaming
service Netflix – reflecting the diverse content that will be available through
the Explora Ultra decoder. In this version, characters from iconic shows
Stranger Things, Queen Sono, Money Heist and Spenser Confidential are called to
the mission. The commercial is being flighted on various
platforms, including across DStv’s platforms. “Siya is a metaphor for the new super sleek, modern DStv Explora Ultra and his legion of stars represents DStv assembling the very best of content it has to offer. This new generation Explora delivers on DStv’s mission to offer value, convenience and more choice to our customers for all their entertainment needs,” said Thabisa Mkhwanazi, DStv executive head of marketing. WPP’s AKQA and Grey form a new network model WPP’s AKQA and Grey are uniting to form a new
network model, AKQA Group. Grey is renowned for creative storytelling and
global brand building at scale, while AKQA is celebrated for its world-class
innovation and experience design skills. With heightened demand for digital transformation
and technology-driven capabilities, the combination will create a powerful new
proposition for clients as a leading creative solutions company with a
worldwide footprint. The AKQA Group will have 6 000 people in more than 50
countries and a blue-chip client roster that includes more than half of the
Fortune 500’s top 20. It will provide a full range of brand experience
capabilities across all communications platforms, strengthening the skills and
services of both companies for clients. AKQA founder Ajaz Ahmed and Grey Worldwide CEO
Michael Houston will partner to lead the new Group. Ahmed will become chief
executive officer and Houston will become global president and chief operating
Officer of AKQA Group. The AKQA Group will launch with the AKQA and Grey
brands, which will be integrated over time into a single company based on
client and market needs. The management team and creative leadership will be
announced in the coming weeks, comprising leaders from AKQA and Grey. AKQA and Grey have highly compatible creative
cultures and share a common belief in the power of creativity. Mark Read, CEO of WPP, said: “Our clients
want outstanding creativity, powered by technology expertise and delivered at a
global scale. This new company is designed precisely to meet those needs and is
another important step forward in building our future-facing offer for
clients.” Vuka.me launches! The first mobile platform that
promises to change the game for Township business owners Savuka Africa Media (SAM) has announced it will be signing up township businesses starting in Soweto from the 1December 2020 onto their newly launched VUKA.ME mobile marketplace. The platform
provides township business owners with a bouquet of services that are designed
to support their growth strategy and allow them to connect and interact
directly with their customers. Ultimately boost the economy – one township at a
time! “South
African townships house some of the most unique businesses in the world,” said
Lieketseng Eze, co-founder of Savuka Africa Media. “VUKA.ME captures the
essence of these businesses and is a platform that elevates and gives them the
well-deserved exposure they have been missing.” SAM’s story is one of igniting the spirit of
entrepreneurship in South African townships. For too many years, these
businesses have been overlooked with regards to technology, media and marketing
assistance. Covid-19 has impacted most businesses
in one way or another, townships SMMEs included.  Many have been forced to close, but countless
more have managed to uncover new opportunities and pivot during this pandemic. “It is this continued resilience of the township market and the spirit to survive and thrive that makes it such a unique environment and one that we want to nurture and grow.” VUKA.me delivers the much sought-after data and insights of SMME’s in the township sector. Machine_
wins Absolut Vodka digital account Machine_ and Pernod Ricard have a long standing
relationship that dates back to 2015. After such a rewarding journey, Machine_
is thrilled to have a brand as iconic as Absolut Vodka be part of their Pernod
Ricard portfolio. Dustin Carr, Business Unit Director at Machine_
said, “We all know that maintaining strong relationships with clients is key,
but even more important to that is growing and nurturing meaningful ones. It’s
because of these meaningful relationships with the Pernod Ricard team that we
not only produce innovative, consumer focused work together, but also retain
brands over a long period and continue to be invited to pitch on new ones.” Machine_ was invited to pitch for the appointment
as Digital Agency for Absolut Vodka. The brief to the agency was simple and
required a creative yet single-minded and focused approach. How did Machine_ answer the brief, and ultimately
win the pitch? PJ Eales, Executive Creative Director at Machine_ said, “It was
an honour to be invited to pitch for such a prestigious brand, Machine_
approached the brief by assembling a diverse, multi-layered team with in-market
insight and experience in order to deliver creative that speaks to the hearts
and minds of the Absolut consumer.” Wunderman Thompson South Africa awarded the Nike account In October, Nike appointed Wunderman
Thompson South Africa after the agency was approached to pitch a creative
concept for the Nike ‘Home of Air’ campaign. The appointment scope includes
customer experience, strategy, creative, UX and UI design for all Nike
products on Sportscene, with the launch of the first release planned
for December. Creative director, Wunderman Thompson South Africa, Francois Botes, said: “We had to consider how might we differentiate Nike in an increasingly crowded ecommerce space. We found opportunities within Nike’s customer journeys to provide delightful digital experiences through the creation of new value-added services. These services will elevate Nike’s ecommerce customer experience beyond an undifferentiated purchase transaction.” Openview introduces People’s Weather Free-To-Air satellite TV service
provider Openview has introduced Africa’s first and only 24/7 weather,
environmental news, and lifestyle channel,People°sWeather.
Available on Channel 115, the latest offering strives to make Africa’s nature
more inclusive for all. Whether telling impactful stories or
providing insightful narratives, Openview customers will be served an extensive
buffet of seasonal content that connects us daily. Viewers can look forward to a wide
range of programming that weaves its way through the documentary-style channel,
focusing on Nature and Outdoors, Food, Travel and Tourism, Farming and
Agriculture, Science and Environmental matters. Making
moves MTV Staying Alive Foundation to celebrate launch of official arm with virtual benefit event – with Charlize Theron The MTV Staying Alive
Foundation (MTV SAF) is set to celebrate a major milestone as it honours the
MTV Shuga Peer Educators at a star-studded benefit event on Thursday 3
December. MTV SAF is a media
movement that believes in young people and for over 20 years’ has empowered
young people through game-changing content that has proven to have a positive
impact on their health and social behaviour. The benefit will raise funds to
support the newly registered South African arm of the Foundation and the Peer
Educator programme. Tickets for the MTV Staying Alive Foundation Virtual
Benefit Event will go on sale this week with big names, including the
award-winning Master KG & Nomcebo confirmed to bring their voices to this
incredible movement, with a performance of ‘Jerusalema’. South African born Academy Award-winning actress Charlize Theron and her organisation, the Charlize Theron Africa Outreach Project (CTAOP), will join forces with the MTV Staying Alive Foundation to recognise the incredible work of young peer educators across South Africa. Theron, who is set to honour the Peer Educator of the Year, with an award at the benefit commented, “On behalf of my foundation CTAOP, I’m excited to spotlight the incredible Peer Educator Volunteers who work with the MTV Staying Alive Foundation. CTAOP decided to partner with the MTV Staying Alive Foundation because of this ground-breaking Peer Education program which has trained hundreds of young people across the continent to openly address issues such as safe sex, healthy relationships, and gender and sexual equality. These peer educators work directly in their own communities speaking to young people on their own terms and I am thrilled to honour the Peer Educator of the Year.” Be sure to purchase your ticket for the benefit on to attend the virtual event. Arena Holdings’ Sunday Times Business Times inks deal to produce Sanlam Gauge Arena Holdings, the Sunday Times Business Times and KhumaloCo have inked a partnership deal with financial services group, Sanlam to research and compile a report into a holistic measurement of economic transformation in South Africa accounting for all elements of  broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE). The project, titled Sanlam Gauge, will be the first consolidated research report of its kind to provide insights on sectoral, rather than individual, company performance. The aim is to provide a defined view of how sectors within South Africa are transforming, so that players start working together to pull specific levers to action meaningful inclusivity, growth and transformation of their industries. Co-founder of the Sanlam Gauge and CEO of KhumaloCo, Andile Khumalo, said that while the JSE compelled companies to disclose their B-BBEE scorecards on SENS, the country still lacked a comprehensive gauge on progress in transforming the economy. Read the rest of the story here. A positive reality show for brands The second season of the
incredibly successful and gender-neutral global production The Fashion Hero, is
set to start filming from March 2021 at Sun City. The unique qualities of the
show will act like a beacon for brands looking to integrate products seamlessly
within the locally produced series aired across multiple countries. “The reality series that focuses on the fashion
industry – with a significant difference – will flight over a period of two
years across the globe, and we’re adding new channels to the mix every week,
meaning that the exposure for our contestants and participating brands, will
reach well over 500 million people,” explained Gail Hoffmann Parrish,
co-founder of marketing and integration agency G2 Connection. A gender-neutral reality show, celebrating
everyone, The Fashion Hero is a
completely new kind of series – challenging the fashion industry’s standard
image of beauty. The first season of the show aired internationally in over 160
countries/territories on both linear TV and digital streaming platforms, the
show has been seen by millions of people. The ACA unveils its new brand identity With a view to preparing it for a new era in the
industry in South Africa, the Association for Communication and Advertising has
unveiled its new logo and corporate identity. “The industry has been on a journey to transform
itself, a journey of inclusiveness. The launch of our new brand identity
reflects this transformation from the perspective of the association. One that
is undergoing a major overhaul of the entire organisation, its purpose, its
offer, its activities and its visibility,” said Mathe Okaba, CEO of the ACA. For years, the previous brand identity of the ACA
has been synonymous within the industry of a voluntary organisation formed both
by, and for, the profession. It is this very profession that is undergoing a
transformation, redirecting not only the physical makeup of its members, but
also how it is perceived and how it will approach the future in an
all-inclusive environment. As the industry has taken on the transformation
journey, so has the ACA. As a tangible symbol of this new approach, it became
evident that the ACA was in need of a fresh visual identity. The new brand identity was developed by Murmur, a
dynamic, award winning creative agency whose specialities include branding,
above the line solutions and brand extension. African Bank selects CallMiner to enhance
customer service using advanced speech analytics Keeping customer satisfaction at the heart of its
business, African Bank has selected the CallMiner Eureka platform from
CallMiner, a recognised global leader in speech analytics, to better extract
and operationalise insights from voice-based  customer interactions. African Bank, which last year trumped traditionally
strong contenders to be ranked number one in customer satisfaction in the 2019
Consulta SA Customer Satisfaction Index (SA-csi) report, will be looking to
extract a deeper understanding of voice-based customer interactions. These are
intended to increase the Bank’s customer experience even further, improve sales
and collection processes as well as automate and improve compliance
scoring.  “As the platform is better understood, further options may be
utilised to the benefit of our customers and the Bank,” says CEO of African
Bank, Basani Maluleke. Podcast Launch: Entertaining content by much-loved media personality,
Riyaaz Safi With two decades of experience in radio,
much-loved media personality, Riyaaz Safi has gotten up-close and personal with
some of the best industry professionals in his new podcast, Thinking
Out Loud – a five-episode lifestyle series that premiered on
Saturday, 14th of November. “The
podcast aims to inform and inspire with some of the best professionals in their
industry including a psychologist, entrepreneur, humanitarian and award-winning
financial journalist and author. These are people that I have come to know
personally during my career,” said Safi.  “Podcasts are a new way to connect to people, to create new opportunities
for news and entertainment and this is something that I’ve been wanting to do
for a while now.  I am excited to be building a new online community.” BBC 100 Women Returns For 2020 BBC 100 Women returns this month, shining a
spotlight on women’s experiences around the world with a week of special
interviews, inspirational masterclasses, documentaries, features and digital
content across the BBC’s UK and international TV and radio services and online.
The season kicks off on November 24th when this year’s 100 Women List will be
announced. In a year of unprecedented turbulence, this
year’s theme is ‘How women led change in 2020’ and celebrates some of the
scientists, public health experts, and healthcare workers who have helped us
weather the storm of the global pandemic, as well as women from other
industries who have all been leaders of change in their own way – from
politicians, lawyers and architects to actors, writers, athletes, singers and
those who have sought to improve the lives of others in their community. Fiona Crack, founder and editor of 100 Women
said: “Returning for the 8th year, 100 Women capitalises on the
unique reach and expertise of the BBC’s 42 language services to bring together
diverse stories of women’s lives and achievements from across the globe. In a
year of turmoil, this year’s 100 Women List will recognise women who made a
difference from a community level right up to international politics, and brand
new for 2020 is a day packed full of online masterclasses led by experts on the
List. But we’ll also be taking a look at how the pandemic has impacted women’s
unpaid workload, and violence against women in the home.” For the Diary VIRTUAL IS DOPE: Africa prepares for first virtual Cannabis Expo The cannabis industry is budding with
preparations for Africa’s first-ever virtual cannabis expo. The Cannabis Expo,
organisers of the continent’s biggest cannabis events, has launched a global
virtual meeting point for everyone interested in cannabis business in Africa.
The Cannabis Vexpo (Virtual Expo) is a three-day event, which runs 26 – 28
November 2020. “The cannabis industry has been growing
rapidly, even during these unprecedented times. With large public events
postponed worldwide due to the Covid-19 pandemic, The Cannabis Vexpo is the
ideal platform for global cannabis business leaders, entrepreneurs and people
interested in cannabis products and opportunities to network, participate in
panels and discussions and to discover and interact with a diverse range of
exhibitors representing cannabis business in Africa,” said expo director Silas
Howarth. With over 50 exhibitors represented, live
panel discussions and presentations from cannabis experts, leaders and
change-makers from around the world, as well as innovative virtual networking
opportunities, The Cannabis Vexpo is a first of its kind for the African
continent. Unique to this virtual event, visitors from anywhere in the world
will be able to register and attend for free, and with tens of thousands of
past visitors and delegates already on the organiser’s database, The Cannabis
Vexpo Africa is set to be the largest virtual cannabis event to take place this
year. Visitors are invited to register for free (limited) now to attend The Cannabis Vexpo Africa as well as delegate passes being available. Registration and information at TheCannabisVexpo.com Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.