[PRESS OFFICE] A decade of media evolution has taken place in a few short months.  In-home media consumption grew, while consumer confidence and ad spending declined during 2020. Kantar’s Media Trends & Predictions 2021 provides insights into which audience behaviours and industry dynamics will stick. Media Trends & Predictions
2021 provides a deep understanding of next year’s media consumer,
alongside the key media strategies designed to spark consumer-led economies
back into growth. The report outlines: “Covid-19 has triggered a decade’s worth of innovation in just a few short months.” said Serge Lupas, CEO of Media Division at Kantar. “As we enter 2021, the media world finds itself at a significant turning point – politically, economically, technologically and socially – and we have identified a series of macro-trends that can position the media and advertising industry as a driver of economic recovery, as well as offer some joy for the watching world.” Jane Ostler, Media
Domain Leader for Kantar’s Insights Division added “It’s all about the detail.
Advertisers, media owners and agencies will need to forensically understand
audience behaviours and attitudes in an environment in constant flux. They need
to pay even closer attention to measurement and effectiveness than ever before.
“ Download the full
report here Piqued
your curiosity?  Sign up for our free
webinars where our experts explore findings from our report that can help
you build richer connections with your audience, your consumers and your clients
to drive business growth through 2021 and beyond.  Can’t make the date?  Sign up anyway to receive a copy of the
recording to watch on demand. PR & Communications Tuesday 1 December In this webinar, we focus on the
major trends to impact the PR & Communications industry in 2021.
Join Kantar experts as we delve deeper into: Register your place here For Advertisers Wednesday 2 December In this webinar, we focus on the
major trends to impact the advertising industry in 2021. Join Kantar
experts as we delve deeper into: Register your place here For Entertainment Content Providers Thursday 3 December Join
us for a 45-minute webinar where we’ll share highlights from our Media Trends
& Predictions 2021 report. Grounded in consumer viewing and subscription
trends from 2020 and opinion from experts we’ll
consider key challenges for your business in 2021 including the
role of the content aggregator, the sustainable future of SVOD platforms and
the real risks and opportunities viewer platform migration brings. In a
time of increased choice and intense competition who will survive – and thrive? Register your place here Reach out over email with any
questions and join the conversation on LinkedIn and Twitter to keep up to
date with our comms! #Media2021 Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.