Did you know that the true success of a personal brand is not in its existence, but in what has been done with the brand? When there is a clear goal in sight, all your tools and skills should be adjusted to optimising your journey of getting to that goal – like a personal brand; this is a tool, and you need to be tuning it up with different strategies aimed at success. One of the most pivotal ways to fine-tune your personal brand, and thereby help you steer better towards your goals, is with a personal brand statement. Who are you? If your life came down to one catchphrase, or one line, how would you define ‘you’? A personal
brand statement goes to the heart of who you are. Without gimmicks, bells and
whistles, your personal brand statement is a summing up of the best and most
intriguing parts of you. This is not an opportunity to write endless lines that
mean nothing, nor is it time to use words you wouldn’t yourself say day-to-day.
A personal brand statement is where you should be truthful – polished, factual,
and entertaining truths. Wondering how
to even begin drafting a personal brand statement? Need to figure out what your
personal brand even is? Here are the top five personal branding insights
you can use to power up your brand for the future: Some often
don’t know enough about themselves, to figure out how to package a personal
brand, which is why my Giraffe Brand
Academy offers branding and business programmes to anyone around the
world, who is keen to uncover and utilise their personal brand to the max.
Visit thegiraffebrand.com for more
details on how to schedule your rise to the next level. Want a firmer
start to your personal branding journey? Begin with a personal branding strategy! A personal branding strategy is the master plan for your journey towards success. Entrepreneur and executive Elizabeth Harr says that the personal branding strategy “is a plan to take your reputation and career from relative obscurity to high visibility. It describes where you stand today and what level of visibility you want to achieve in the future”. The focus of such a strategic outline, is that it gives you the grand design of where you are, what you want, where you’re going, and how you are getting there – this means that it is a comprehensive plan, which includes: tactics, skills, resources, and tools. By the time you complete your personal branding strategy, you’ll amazingly also be equipped with some necessities for showcasing your best self at interviews, at your workplace, and when networking. Don’t feel daunted. You’ve got this! Start with one step: establishing what
you want your personal brand to actually do for you. For a truly successful personal brand to
be sustainable, it is evident that you have got to angle it towards a goal.
Find your bliss, and let it saturate this personal brand you are developing.
Content marketing is a part of the ‘how’ of your personal branding strategy,
but right now you should focus on the ‘why’. Where the ‘how’ aspect of your personal
branding strategy comes into play, Steven Li, founder of Medius Ventures,
advises that one of the facets of your personal branding strategy should be to
maintain a good personal website – words of wisdom I agree with fully. Being
online is not relegated solely to visuals and trendy posts, but in using the
platforms as a way of making meaning. Making meaning online is about value
being added to somebody’s digital experience; and the impression and
information you share, sticking in the minds of others long after they’ve
unplugged. Credibility is a hard-to-find commodity when observing some of the entrepreneurs and personal brands blinking in and out of our daily orbits. Credibility is currency; and can turn your words into game-changers because people consider you trustworthy. Your personal brand strategy should be geared towards authenticity and value, as well as you having a plan dedicated to substantially building your credibility – in part, using social media, your personal website, and most importantly by storytelling. Marrying knowledge, experience, and truth, is a surefire way to elevate your personal brand, so when are you getting started? Liezel van der Westhuizen, who has a Master’s in Business Communication, owns The Giraffe Brand Academy. Here, her mission as a personal brand builder is to assist clients to stick their necks out and cultivate their power to stand tall and be unique. This, she believes, is the key to marketplace success. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.