Telling better stories means fighting for better gender representation in the work place. And, it’s time for men to step up and join the fight. It’s 2016, and I’m living out my advertising dream. I’m
at the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity and one of nine women
on a panel of 26 judges. We’re in the midst of discussing a piece and three of
us women are leading the argument. A male judge from across the room disagrees
with us and says, “Girls! Girls! Girls…” I don’t remember what he said next, because all three of
us were having none of it. This was not “Bring a girl child to work day”. This
was a group of professional women, seasoned advertisers representing their
continents on a world stage. And we were being reduced to our teenage-girl
selves. The marketing and advertising industry may think we’ve
progressed well beyond the Mad Men
era but today we’re dealing with something just as dangerous: subtle offences;
implicit bias and microaggressions. When discrimination or gender inequality is
not overt, it’s even harder to dismantle. Nielsen tells us that women hold 71% purchasing power in South Africa. And yet, as an industry, we’re still struggling to retain female creatives and find women in leadership roles. Quite simply, we cannot tell authentic stories about women if our studios and boardrooms are under-represented. Read more: SheSays delivers report on women ‘worker bees’ in advertising Read more: New decade, new women Challenging stereotypes in advertising We’ve merely cracked open the book of stories women and
people who identify as women have to tell. Can you imagine how much more
effective we could be, how much further we could grow the economy as an
industry, if we just normalised gender equality and told way better stories? Here are some ways we can shed the scaly skin of
patriarchy that still looms in our industry, like the lecherous old uncle
nursing a whisky in the corner of the room. Stop
hiring for the single story One of my favourite writers, Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie,
speaks about the danger of the “single story”. She says, “The single story creates stereotypes,
and the problem with stereotypes is not that they are untrue, but that they are
incomplete. They make one story become the only story.” So, as tellers of
stories, we need to hire better. We cannot
have true insights about humans if we don’t have enough different and unique
humans in the room. And it’s not
about a sprinkling of diversity either. Actor Riz Ahmed says it best: “I don’t
like to talk about diversity; I feel like it sounds like an added extra. That’s
not what it’s about for me. It’s about representation. Representation is
absolutely fundamental in terms of what we expect from our culture, and from
our politics. We all want to feel represented. We all want to feel seen and
heard and valued.” Start
calling out bad behaviour Whether it’s from the agency CCO, your big money-spinning
client or the young intern, call out inappropriate behaviour, discriminatory
commentary and implicit bias. If you’re worried about losing business because
of it, then you’re a poor leader who needs a sit down with your conscience.
Develop a zero-tolerance policy towards inequality and discrimination in your
company so that young women don’t have to do the heavy lifting themselves.
Create safe spaces for your employees, and foster an environment that is
liberating and inclusive. You will attract not only better employees, but the
right kind of clients too. Invest
in a contemporary dictionary Understand that the world we navigate now needs new
language. Don’t make assumptions about gender and don’t make it the job of your
employees to educate you. Know the difference between ‘he’, ‘she’, ‘they’, ‘ze’
and ‘zir’. Bring in specialists who can break down what every letter in LGBTQ+
means. Ensure
that transformation is not an occasion, a noun or a points parade For far too long, we’ve looked at the word
‘transformation’ as something that’s great to bandy about on panel discussions.
The B-BBEE points system is a good sign-off in a pitch room, and we speak about
shining a light on women as if they are need of illumination. Women are already
strong; we have a lot to say and to contribute, and we don’t need the charity
of a candle held up to us on public holidays. We need genuine commitment to and
investment in the growth and development of young people. We need actual,
on-the-ground work – the kind that takes place behind the scenes, while no
one’s watching. Without it, transformation is a wallflower, not the future we
want for our people and our industry. Do
better because the world needs better As media, marketers and advertisers, we know the power we
hold in shaping conversations, thoughts and behaviours. We also know the ills
we’ve perpetuated. We live in the most exciting times and our relationship with
our audiences is more intimate than it’s ever been. But if you’re a brand
that’s either born or still standing in this generation, you will never be
forgiven for not knowing who you are and for not standing for something. You
don’t have to change who you are; you just have to do way better. Finally, boys, boys, boys…if you’re reading this, please
know that the time has come and gone to banish mad men, creepy uncles and the
guys who pose as convenient feminists. It’s a much better world if you join us
in unlearning, re-educating, reframing and rolling up sleeves. It’s a much
better world when we’re not deploying our energy on breaking down walls, but
rather investing it in telling better stories. BIO Suhana Gordhan is the executive creative director at the DUKE Group.
Making iconic work with local flavour is the fundamental principle that has
sustained the newly appointed ECD in the advertising industry for the past 15
years. Over the years, Gordhan has gained unparalleled insights and
experience from her many terms on local and international industry award
panels. A recipient of numerous awards herself, Gordhan has shared her
creativity with brands such as Nando’s, Coca-Cola and USAID. In fact, her work
for Coca-Cola was featured in Contagious Magazine as one of three campaigns in
The World’s Best Strategies. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.