I spent 20 years in corporate and have now happily been working for myself for just over six years, two of which have been spent leaning more and more into entrepreneurial endeavours. This shift is what makes me sparkle, it is “what makes my bum itch” as my good friend Tabatha King would say. But it has not always been like that. In fact, I distinctly remember these exact words coming out of my mouth, “I will never work for myself; I’m just not wired like that.” Boy, was I wrong! I suspect those who know me well would probably say that it is no great surprise that I ventured out on my own and am loving it. Though my dream is to build my own brands and get involved in growing great business ideas into profitable ventures, my main source of income is still freelancing my skills and services in the marketing and media space, a ‘bread and butter’ fall back strategy for which I am extremely grateful. Wherever you are on your journey, the minute you step out of someone else giving you your job description and a salary, I believe you are an entrepreneur.  The official definition of being an entrepreneur is: “A person who sets up a business or businesses, taking on financial risks in the hope of profit”. So, if you are doing this, you too are an entrepreneur. Let’s face it, not everyone is cut out to be an entrepreneur, and there are inherent qualities that make it easier to venture out on your own and make a success of yourself. These include being able to move out of your comfort zone, motivating yourself and taking action, solving problems, loving new ideas and connecting with people, even if you are more naturally an introvert. (Unless of course you are one of the lucky ones that invent an incredible product that everyone wants, and you sell it for millions – then you can stay in your bedroom in your pyjamas all day). Having said that, so much about being an entrepreneur is a learning curve, one that should be be part of your DNA. I have just started my journey as an entrepreneur, but here are eight things I have learned and would like to share. Each day I wake up excited to see what new opportunities I can create, and what opportunities will come knocking unexpectedly from something I did previously, or from someone I met. I learn new lessons every day in my entrepreneurial journey, but I feel like it was always in me and only now am I peeling off the layers to discover my true self. I am grateful for all the lessons I learned when I was employed, and the network I have built up over the years, but having the ability to create my own opportunities, to work with the people I choose to work with, and to be involved in anything that inspires me, fills me with huge satisfaction. I am working towards being completely unemployable, but very sought after. Eve Pennington is a media industry veteran, working in both media independents, and full service advertising agencies. Now she’s an independent entrepreneur. Her driving principle is that consumer insights and strong relationships with creative agencies and media owners results in great work. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.