Programmatic digital out-of-home advertising is revolutionising the way we advertise outdoors. You’ll never look at a billboard the same way again. The more involved you become in marketing and advertising, the more you get
used to hearing references to programmatic advertising. Programmatic
advertising refers to the sale and purchase of advertising space in real time,
through software used to automate the buying, placement and optimisation of
media inventory. Put very simply: programmatic media buying
uses computer algorithms and various data sources to serve the right
advertising to the right audience at the right time. The pricing is based on
the real-time balance of available inventory and demand. Programmatic advertising has rapidly become a
reality in the outdoor advertising space, with 2020 being touted as the year
for programmatic digital out-of-home, or pDOOH as it is widely known. In its most simplistic form, the pDOOH transaction between advertiser and media owner looks like this: Advertisers load their various targeting and
budget options on the “demand side” through a demand side platform (DSP), which can have many different
variations depending on the unique objectives and needs of the client or
campaign. Media owners load their inventory on the “supply side” through a
Supply Side Platform (SSP).
Media owners can programme things like pricing and load the inventory they want
to be sold. The ad exchange then essentially brokers a deal between the two
parties, all of which happens in a matter of milliseconds. The most common option for buying pDOOH is through real-time bidding, also known as the open auction.
In this scenario an ad slot is offered to a group of buyers, who automatically
place bids according to how much the slot is worth to them. Instantaneously,
the system assigns the slot to the best bid, the transaction is completed, and
the ad is delivered. So you may ask: How does pDOOH differ from other programmatic channels such as online
or mobile advertising? Online or mobile advertising is almost always a
one-to-one ad serve, which means an advertiser is serving an advert to ONE
individual based on information (browsing history and so forth) about that
individual. pDOOH is a one-to-many ad serve, so its measurement differs in terms of
what is called an impression
multiplier. For mobile and online advertising, there is always a 1:1 ad
served: impression generated ratio. But a single pDOOH ad serve could equate to
thousands of impressions depending on the location, time of day and generic
traffic density. As a result, the type of data used and
campaign reporting may differ slightly, but just like with traditional
programmatic purchases, advertisers can layer and fuse any number of datasets
and insights to serve a more targeted and effective advert through pDOOH. Leading DSPs in the market today are integrating pDOOH into
their buying platforms and allowing advertisers to buy online and DOOH
inventory simultaneously, essentially making each digital billboard panel a
mobile screen. The race to a truly programmatic environment is being led by
global giants like JCDecaux and Clear Channel Outdoor, which are already making most of their
inventory available programmatically. As more media owners and
DSPs begin to support programmatic pDOOH and more buyers begin incorporating
the medium into their campaigns, the format will inevitably become an integral
part of most mainstream digital media buys. This is where the potential for pDOOH gets
exciting. Rather than cannibalise the OOH market, pDOOH enhances the probability of
increased advertising spend for the sector, tapping into campaigns that would
not normally be allocated to OOH. An important point to note is that there is
nothing that can be done programmatically that
cannot already be accomplished with a direct buy. The key differentiator in pDOOH lies
in the speed and efficiency at which you can deliver relevant messaging to your
target market. Instead of multiple direct buys with various media owners, you
can buy through one single DSP quickly and easily, optimising your time and
your budget. From a content perspective, DOOH companies are
already seeing the value in integrating various datasets like location data and
mobility data to get real-time views of audience and movement around their
displays. There is also no limit to the ways in which external
data can be used to trigger DOOH adverts. For instance, setting content to
change in response to time or weather parameters is a simple and effective
option for ensuring contextually relevant ads for that time of the day when
consumers are in the right frame of mind to buy a product. Other data sources
include live daily stock-market performance, real-time scores coming from
sporting events and integration with social-media feeds. Platforms like Quividi and AdMobilize let DOOH networks use camera sensors that can detect
things like audience demographics, dwell times, engagement and more. Variations
on this technology include facial- and gender-recognition software, and
eye-tracking software. As technology advances, we are seeing dynamic-pricing
adverts linked to sales that change content based on the availability of
products in store. And, of course, the more triggers and more data sources
used, the more granular the targeting can be for a pDOOH campaign. As pDOOH comes of age we can expect more locations, better tools, more effective campaign measurement and more captivating creative executions. Not only will pDOOH drive growth in ad spend, making a bigger advertising pizza with bigger slices for everyone, but with all the platform, content and creative options, everyone can have their favourite topping on their slice. Alasdair Muller is the business development director at Guerrilla IMC. He is an OOH and technology fanatic with more than 13 years’ advertising and marketing experience. Muller has served in senior management roles at JCDecaux Africa, EOH Mthombo and The Media Factory. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.