[PARTNER CONTENT] Breakfast radio is unique in that the most successful presenters have a strong, close, almost personal link with their listeners. The success of YFM’s Y Mornings, with DJ Ankletap and Candis Coulsen aka Kandis Kardashian is their unmistakable burst of positive energy weekdays between 5am and 9am. Hosts Tap and Kandis find the humour in everyday life, giving listeners a chance to escape the mundane pressures of living in trying times and to stop, even for a moment, to just enjoy life. From research, it is clear that what young people demand from morning radio is something light but not entirely frivolous – Y Mornings is not afraid to tackle the big stories or trends of the day. Other stations can describe their morning shows as the “most fun” but just saying that does not necessarily make it so! “I think humour is the most important thing,
and this was especially true during the lockdown,” says Tap. “People were
constantly indoors having to consume ‘heavy’ news all the time. It’s been a
tough time for our country and many have been struggling with the general
anxiety that a pandemic brings.” While
the world is getting back to normal, Ankletap acknowledges that since the hard
lockdown in March, frontline workers have been tuning in because of the need to
escape. “These workers have also been listening to Y Mornings and we know that
the show takes them away from the stress of the reality of the situation and
that laughter and humour can ease some of that anxiety.” Ankletap’s
energetic style and enthralling storytelling have kept listeners engaging consistently,
so much so that the show trends multiple times a week on Twitter. The unique
relationship and authentic connection the show has with its super-fans, or
‘Prefects’, is key. “We
all go through trying times in our lives, and our job is to ensure we will
bring positivity every day for our listeners. I’ve gone through my struggles
over the last few months but focusing on my mental health and remaining
positive is something I am very passionate about. This is important for myself
and the entire Y Mornings team and we hope we can keep doing that for the
listeners,” says Ankletap. Bryce
Clark, better known as Malume, DJ Ankletap or just Tap, quickly moved up the
ranks to the midday show Tap Mansion’ and then to the morning slot, on Y
Mornings, proving once again that YFM is in touch with what the youth needs. A
few years ago Tap did a stint on evening radio, but YFM’s listeners made it
very clear they wanted him back on breakfast. The line-up was changed in
October of that year – practically unheard of in South African radio Kandis’
edginess, relatability, and ability to connect with the audience makes her the
ideal partner to keep bringing the fire to YFM listeners. Her popular Tea
feature spills the beans on local and international celebrity culture. Whether
the changes shaped by Covid-19 and the lockdown in terms of commuting patterns
are permanent remains to be seen. Although certain office nodes are still very
quiet, major arterial routes are busy once again and traffic is a reality. The
shifting of the morning peak to an hour later as lockdown eased through level 4
and level 3 was temporary as this has shifted back to the 7am hour. Listening
patterns in the afternoon are also back to normal. Afternoon
drive, by definition, is a different format to morning radio, although
listeners still demand to be entertained. The Best Drive with DJ Sabby and
Altovise – known as “The best show on the radio” – has built its reputation as
being the go-to for the latest news on anything youth culture and is renowned
for its ground-breaking guest collection. Acclaimed actress Altovise Lawrence
officially joined the show mid-year as co-host, bringing her grit, unique
insights, and experience to the team. This deliberate contrast between the two drivetime shows – the humour, lightness, and positivity in Y Mornings with the music-focused, fast-paced energy of The Best Drive – provides the ideal balance to YFM’s weekday line up. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.