The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s
BIG move: TikTok partners with Webfluential for first African influencer
marketing play TikTok has
announced that global influencer marketing platform Webfluential.com has been
engaged as its first partner for creators and brands to collaborate in Africa.
Both brands and agencies are now officially able to collaborate with TikTok
creators at a commercial level, based on the reach, resonance, and relevance of
these influencers. “TikTok’s
unique creator engagement solutions and immersive formats reach and engage
audiences in innovative new ways. We selected Webfluential as our partner in
Africa to bring our offering to African brands and agencies at scale”, said
Boniswa Sidwaba, TikTok content operations manager, Africa. “TikTok
enables creator-led brand engagement that is relatable and authentic, simple
and entertaining allowing brands to supercharge audience engagement. Coupled
with influencer strategy and our influencer expertise at the Nfinity group –
Webfluential’s local execution partner, we can now work with brands and top
TikTok creators to engage new audiences,” added Greg Bailie, lead client partner
at Webfluential South Africa. With new
and innovative ways to engage African audiences, TikTok’s growth in Africa
shows no sign of slowing down. This partnership is set to bolster TikTok’s
position among the communication mix for brands on the continent. With
Webfluential already connected to 500m fans and followers across Africa, the
partnership with TikTok extends the potential for brands to tap into the
1.2bn-strong African audience to help inspire creativity and bring joy. People moves CNN International Commercial appoints Cathy Ibal
and Rob Bradley to lead ‘audience first’ strategy CNN International Commercial (CNNIC) has appointed
two joint-heads of CNN’s international advertising sales business to give
brands and advertisers from wherever they are in the world greater access to
global solutions from CNN Worldwide and the broader WarnerMedia portfolio. In these new positions, Cathy Ibal and Rob
Bradley lead CNNIC’s ‘audience first’ strategy, which supercharges putting
audiences at the heart of every campaign rather than focus on platform or
geography. In roles that combine oversight of ad sales, client
development, digital and data capabilities, branded content, trade marketing
and events, Ibal and Bradley will be focused on creating and delivering
solutions for clients that have the most impact with defined audiences on a
global scale and enhancing our audiences’ advertising experience across all CNN
platforms. Ibal leads advertising sales for all EMEA and takes responsibility for CNNIC’s international client development. Bradley leads advertising sales across Asia and Latin America and takes responsibility for CNNIC’s international digital and data development. John Deere Africa-Middle East announces new leader
for marketing & sales activities As part of the Smart Industrial organisational
changes, John Deere Africa Middle East (AME) has
announced the appointment of Jaco Beyers to the role of managing director for
its marketing and sales branch head office in South Africa, effective from
October 2020. “It is not the strongest who survive, nor the
smartest, but those most responsive to change,” said Beyers. “For more than 180
years, John Deere has benefited from strong, decisive leaders who are dedicated
to the company’s core values and I intend on ensuring our values remain active
and relevant.” According to Jason Brantley, director for Region 1
A&T Sales & Marketing at John Deere, Beyers and the Africa-Middle East
team will support dealers in growing customer productivity and profitability by
leveraging the John Deere Smart Industrial strategy. Smart Industrial focuses
on both technology and equipment to help customers unlock profit at all levels
of mechanization. Business moves Avatar Cape Town toasts to The Macallan and Famous
Grouse win Edrington Africa, supplier of some of the world’s
best-loved whiskies, has appointed Avatar CPT as its agency of record. The win
will see Avatar CPT become the agency of record for two of Edrington Africa ’s
premium brands, The Macallan
and The Famous Grouse. Edrington Africa is focused on becoming a leading
super-premium whisky supplier in Africa’s leading cities. The company has a
strong track record of investing in both consumer marketing and operational
assets to bring those brands closer to consumers. “As the impact of the ongoing pandemic on the
global beverage alcohol market continues to come into focus, we have the
enviable task of shaping how the brands will communicate with South African
consumers,” said Veli Ngubane, chief creative officer of Avatar Agency Group.
“For us, this means we have to actively listen to the market.” “This is the first time the brands will be
localising work for local markets, we are excited to be playing our part as the
Avatar Cape Town in creating new job and freelance opportunities in this
difficult time.” Planet
Fitness appoints Flume as lead digital agency With the fitness industry poised for a
post-lockdown rebirth, Planet Fitness has hit the ground running with the appointment
of Flume as their lead digital partner heading into the new normal. Following a three-week pitch process, work on the
account is set to kick off immediately, and will involve a full 360° integrated
digital approach, including a full redesign of the Planet Fitness website. “We are thrilled to be working with such an iconic
South African household brand, and to delve into the world of wellness at a
time so rich with opportunity for the industry”, said Jacques Du Bruyn, Flume
MD and co-founder. “We are excited to start “Making it Matter” for Planet
Fitness and to drive a long-lasting partnership.” Taking pride in an insights-driven approach, Flume
has partnered with BrandMap to gather information on the shifting fitness
market and the South African audience. This research has been used to frame the
approach to channel selection and audience messaging. GoBinge and Dream Team World form
competitive branded entertainment partnership GoBinge, a subsidiary of Just Brands Africa, a video-first
digital marketing agency, has entered into a co-production and commercial
partnership with Dream Team World,
leaders in branded entertainment and the production of original brand-funded
television series. The collaboration
is aimed at driving GoBinge’s
branded entertainment offering and positioning the agency as a serious
contender and one of Africa’s most influential media youth and disruptor brands
to emerge from Cape Town’s digital filmmaking scene. GoBingefounder Francois
van Louw, said, “Today, on-demand and digital platforms are the go-to
destination for those looking to consume content, whether that be for
entertainment, information, shopping or a host of other lifestyle services. I
launched GoBinge as content
platform focused on delivering to millennials and generation Z.” Dream Team World is the brainchild
of creative director and one of South Africa’s most awarded TV commercial
producers, Peter Gird, and sponsorship and customer engagement specialist, Lara
Black. Established a year ago to provide TV production, brand funding and
branded entertainment solutions to broadcasters, brands, producers, media and
advertising agencies the duo have been working in the TV and branded
entertainment industry for the last ten years, spearheading and producing brand
funded Series like the successful multi-season reality TV franchise, Ultimate Braai Master; and applying
brand-sponsored solutions to successful global TV franchise brands like The Bachelor, Survivor and most recently, The Bachelorette for M-Net. Careers Magazine back on shelf Careers Magazine, South Africa’s youth-led and
youth-owned monthly magazine is back on shelf, with a bumper issue (October and
November), following a hiatus because of the Covid-19 lockdown. The magazine
had exclusively moved to digital, but the publisher is confident there is still
an appetite for print amongst its target market, whose primary audience is
between 18 and 35. “Apart from touch and feel, magazines allow for
longer format, in-depth articles and also great for collecting and sharing as
our content is not dated,” said Nkokheli Lindazwe, Careers Magazine’s general
manager. He said while the online uptake is good, print
was an important part of the content delivery mix with video content on the
social media platforms also proving to be popular. The October/November print edition is available
on shelf from 30 October 2020 from be Pick n Pay, Woolworths, and Spar. The
e-edition can also be purchased on the magazine’s website. Eclipse Communications launches new brand
identity Previously known as Eclipse Public Relations, the
agency has rebranded to Eclipse Communications to reflect its full-service
communications offering, which incorporates – in addition to public
relations – digital media strategy and execution, reputation management,
content creation, influencer management and relations, event management and
production, to name a few. The agency has unveiled its new look in celebration
of its growth as an agency and its diversity in service offering. Eclipse Communications founding partner, Jacki
McEwen-Powell, said the rebrand is more than just a name, service or corporate
identity change – it is a strategic move. “As we extend our African footprint
beyond the three major city centres in South Africa and four in-country
communications partners in Kenya, Nigeria, Namibia and Israel, we needed to
ensure we evolved our brand identity to reflect who we are and how we are
represented in the industry.” hoola
Modern Agency stands out by creating the unexpected In celebration of their rapid growth
over the last four years, hoola
recently launched their new brand evolution, which through ‘edgy and
unexpected’ creative designs showcased the agency’s ‘moderness’. Head of creative, Jamie Bell said when
you see hoola your experience is of a
modern, creative agency that is self-aware and does not limit itself to the
current trends, but looks and sounds like hoola. But for the creative team at the Port
Elizabeth based agency, the challenge on how to do this, and continuing doing
this, was understood. “We must find the new modern in everything we do, without
copying anyone’s ideas or creative output,” said Bell. For hoola’s
head of conceptual creative, Meagan Viljoen, staying ‘modern’ meant that they
needed to be current, and showcase that through their work. “From the big idea
to the execution thereof, our work needs to show fresh thinking,” she said. “Not
only does this show that we are brave, but it also shows we understand our
audience, and that we find unique solutions which are relevant to their
problems.” RMB brand
refresh reflects updated Africa-focused business strategy and platform-led
world Rand Merchant Bank (RMB) has announced an
investment in its brand – recently valued at R4 billion by Brand Finance – to
align with its evolved business strategy and a rapidly advancing digital
business environment. “A lot has happened since our last brand refresh in
2006, both in terms of our operating strategy and the business environment in
general,” said RMB CEO, James Formby. “The latest investment in our brand
reflects these changes, ensuring that the RMB brand remains relevant, modern
and distinctive in the broader African market and with our growing client
base.” The new brand reflects RMB’s over-arching purpose,
which is to liberate diverse talent to do good business for a better world.
“Our purpose is the deepest expression of why our brand exists,” saidFormby.
“We have always had a strong focus on talent, ethics, innovation and an
entrepreneurial spirit. These factors are reflected in the various building
blocks that make up the brand. “There are numerous touchpoints that shape our
brand in the hearts and minds of our employees, clients and society to bring
the purpose to life – from the way our people engage with clients, our events,
our advertising, our communication and the types of business opportunities we
undertake, to the everyday experiences people have with RMB.” Dis-Chem rolls out sustainable retail display
solution Reinforcing its commitment to continuous
improvement on its greener journey, Dis-Chem Pharmacies has installed 505 fully
recycled and recylable retail displays across an initial 101 stores. PolyAl displays, manufactured by Barrows Africa,
are made from the plastic (polyethylene) and aluminium layers of post-consumer
long-life liquid cartons that Tetra Pak and Gayatri Paper Mills are diverting
from landfill.  After a year of research and development, in partnership
with Perspex SA, Barrows has manufactured a PolyAl core upcycled from 3500
long-life cartons. Dis-Chem is the first retailer to adopt the
programme.  Its initial order of 505 units mean that 1.8 million long-life
cartons have been diverted from landfill and by the end of the year this number
is expected to reach 3.5 million as the programme grows with Dis-Chem. The first brands on the programme included the
Dis-Chem house-brand Greener Living, Unilever’s multi-brand Spring Clean, Red
Bull and Celltone Skin Care. In October the programme will be extended to
include  Meridol, Nivea, Axe, L’Oreal and Techniblock. WARC
and SCOPEN partner for AGENCY SCOPE UK WARC, the global authority on marketing effectiveness,
and SCOPEN, a leading marketing communications research consultancy, are
partnering for the UK’s 4th edition of AGENCY
SCOPE, an independent report on marketer-agency relationships, to reveal what
brands really think and how agencies
can strategise for growth. A unique tool, AGENCY SCOPE 2021/2022 will provide
creative and media agencies with first-hand information on the needs of their
clients, helping them to improve and provide new services. The in-depth study will reveal key insights into
how brands see the UK agency landscape, trends in the communications and
marketing sector, the ever-changing services they need, and their perception
and image of their agencies in comparison to others. The biennial research for the study is based on
quantitative and qualitative interviews carried out between January to April
2021 with more than 400 leading senior advertisers – highest level
decision-makers in marketing, communications, advertising and procurement –
from the largest and most important marketers in the UK.  Participant companies include Asos, Aviva,
BT, Diageo, easyJet, Ford, NHS England, P&G, Santander, Tesco and Unilever. AGENCY SCOPE UK 2021/22 will
be released in spring 2021. Similar reports are also available for 11 other
markets in 4 continents, including Brazil, China, India, Mexico and South
Africa. Making
moves East Coast Gold celebrates its one-year anniversary East Coast Gold celebrated a big milestone on Wednesday – its first birthday. In just one year, the platform has managed to gain loyal listeners from all over South Africa.  East Coast Radio launched East Coast Gold in 2019 after seeing a gap in the market for a unique music offering aimed at the 50+ market. The internet radio station caters to music lovers
who enjoy classics from the ’60s, ’70s and ’80s. East Coast Gold’s success can
also be attributed to its quality radio content and strong line-up of
experienced presenters. East Coast Radio’s programming manager, Zane
Derbyshire, said he was looking forward to the next 12 months. “This is a passion project for each one of us who
work on it and in the coming year we want to turn East Coat Gold into South
Africa’s number 1 online station for listeners over 50 in the SEM 9 and 10
segments. This market is underserved and the products on offer don’t compete
with what is being produced in the pop/adult contemporary space. “ Seasoned radio personality Damon Beard, who was
with ECR for 28 years, now hosts the East Coast Gold Drive Show from
13:00-17:00. Jane Linley-Thomas and Graham present their shows from
KwaZulu-Natal while the legendary Alex Jay is in Gauteng. As the station grows,
from Monday, 9 November, the much-loved Dave Guselli, another legend in South
African radio, will be joining the team! Virtual
Huawei Joburg Day 2020 a massive success The
2020 virtual edition of Huawei Joburg Day enthralled a country-wide audience on
Friday 23 October. Music fans were treated to two hours of top music performances
by some of Joburg’s biggest names, including Mafikizolo, James Deacon, Riky
Rick, Holly Rey, Jeremy Loops and Lady
Zamar. The show was broadcast live on ‘Fresh on 947’ and simultaneously
streamed on 947.co.za The
event was an unprecedented success, with more than 20 000 viewers
following the event live on 947 YouTube and an additional 5 500 listeners
on Joox. For
the first time since Joburg Day’s inception, the event was free and available
to view online, listen to on-air and engage with via social media. The event
trended on social media for its full duration with listeners winning prizes,
commenting on their favourite performances and experiencing a world-class music
festival in the comfort of their homes. Event
partner, Huawei, saw hundreds of people visit their eCommerce website over the
two hours of the online event. SABC welcomes government’s audio and audiovisual
content services policy review The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has
welcomed the publication of Government’s draft White Paper on Audio and
Audiovisual Content Services and its comprehensive review of broadcasting
policy and legislation. The SABC will be making a detailed submission on the
paper to the Department of Communications and Digital Technologies (DCDT),
including comments on: In finalising the SABC’s submission, the public
broadcaster will take cognisance of the wide range of views expressed on the
need for a licence fee or a public broadcasting levy.  The SABC calls on
the public and all interested parties to also make their comments to the DCDT
by 30 November 2020. Greater public input can only further enrich the final
policy process and outcomes. Africa Rising International Film Festival
Developing 16 Short Films and Documentaries The Africa Rising International Film Festival’s third instalment will host its virtual edition this year, scheduled to run from 27th to the 29th November. True to the time, the 2020 edition will be both a virtual experience with one or two live experiences.  Using film to create awareness and contribute to urgent conversations needed, and hopefully drive change , this year the festival puts a spot light on Gender Based Violence, Black Lives Matter and Unjust systems that still govern today. ARIFF will  develop and screen 16 short films and documentaries under the 2020 theme its gender-based violence and equality project dubbed the ARIFF Film for Change: GBV and Equality. The main objective of the project is to drive conversation, raise awareness of gender-based violence and equality through the power of cinema and storytelling to push for real change and accountability. The short films and documentaries will form part of the 16 Days of Activism Against Women and Children Abuse. The programme will also be integrated to the Africa Rising International Film Festival’s training program ARIFF Film Institute where ARIFF mentors over 200 young creatives through Directing, Producing, Scriptwriting, Acting, and technical and creative aspect of filmmaking. For the Diary Insightful research to enable better media planning
and increase your advertising ROI. Fusion is brought to you by PRC
and BRC,
leaders in relevant and insightful research, to deliver richer and deeper
insights than ever before. In this South African first, the latest Fusion dataset
contains more data points than any other media research study ever
published in South Africa. This multi Fusion will be launched via Zoom webinar
on 18 November 2020 at 12:00. Book your
virtual seat now
to be the first to see the insights that this mulitple data set reveals
and experience how Fusion data science can add value to your advertising
decision making. Make a
movie in one weekend! The challenge? To make a film in only 48 hours. Filmmakers from all over KZN will compete to see
who can make the best short film in only 48 hours. The winning film will go up
against films from around the world at Filmapalooza 2021 for a chance at the
grand prize and an opportunity to screen at the Cannes Film Festival 2021 Short
Film Corner. For Fun, Passion or Purpose, Anyone wanting to
participate can join in the fun, learn the tricks of the trade, Make their
movie (or join a Team) & then get to enjoy their work on the big screen as
well as on National Television 1KZNTV! Films can even be made on a mobile
device so there’s no excuses! You do not need to be from the film industry,
Just have the zest or calling to do so & we will take you through to the
finishing line! Registration is now open: //www.48hourfilm.com/durban-za. Registration fee costs R1 700 to part take in this international competition and we are encouraging filmmakers to write to us should they need financial support with regards to this. Appeal for sponsorship of registration fees can be sent to durban@48hourfilm.com. Teams can register online at www.48hourfilm.com/durban Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.