Following the address by President Cyril Ramaphosa last week on easing Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, media coverage shows increased mentions of the economy reopening. Health and safety precautions are also in the lead as the country still needs to manage the spread of the novel coronavirus after confirmation that the country has over 106 000 positive cases. While South
Africa has increased testing, there is still talk of finding ways to manage the
spread of Covid-19 as more people go out and interact. As the number of
infections increase some provinces are beginning to experience pressure with a
lack of beds in hospitals. Some patients are being turned back due to bed
shortages where private hospitals in Nelson Mandela Bay have suspended
non-urgent surgeries and admissions. Being the Eastern Cape’s largest metro,
Nelson Mandela Bay receives most of the cases in the province. Unemployment
figures are also making the news this week with Statistics South Africa showing
that the country has reached record unemployment levels – and this before the
impact of Covid19 which is further expected to decimate jobs. Finance Minister,
Tito Mboweni, delivering a Supplementary Budget speech on Wednesday, will have
a tough time juggling the country’s finances. This week’s
coverage includes a sample of 3 866 media items collected from online, print
and broadcast sources from 17 to 23 June 2020, with President Cyril Ramaphosa
featuring prominently. Online media continues to lead by percentage coverage
with magazines showing the lowest levels of coverage. Of the 661 media sources
analysed, national media remains to show the highest activity while
Johannesburg is the most active on social media. Brand Intelligence® firm Ornico has committed its resources to assist the communication industry and will be working closely with the Public Relations Institute of Southern Africa (PRISA) and other industry role players to help understand reportage around the pandemic. This will help professional communicators to improve critical messaging and to direct it to relevant audiences. Follow Ornico on Twitter and the company
website for weekly
updates and ongoing research. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.