A small Cape Town-based out of home advertising services company has joined forces with Sizwe Medical Fund to roll out an OOH campaign at Cape Town International Airport. But that is just the start of it as Mandisi Ads has acquired a concession to deliver advertising inventory across Acsa airports and PRASA train stations in a deal that has given it a national footprint. “We are based in Cape
Town, but we have a national footprint, which runs across three major cities,
with ACSA OOH inventory at OR Tambo, Cape Town International Airport, King
Shaka Airport, and exclusivity on certain OOH sites,” explained founder and
director, Mandisi Maqetuka. Maqetuka said the ACSA
deal meant a lot to the company’s business growth. “It positions us as one of
the OOH media owners capable of delivering with sheer professionalism and
transparency, any high-end corporate branding, and strategically position it at
the most affluent OOH advertising environment (airports premises) in South
Africa,” he said. He launched the company
two years ago. The Acsa deal, he said would play a “potent vital role in making
sure that Mandisi Ads does not just grow its OOH advertising business with in
its premises, but also sustains it”. It wasn’t an easy road,
however. “Attaining the first campaign was very intense, as accessing markets
is not easy at all for a relatively new company,” said Maqetuka. “A whole year
went by without a single client on our portfolio; we downsized even further and
had to let go of some of our creatives. “It literally took us 26
trips, flying back and forth to Johannesburg from Cape Town, attending meeting
after meeting with media agencies, independent clients and business
individuals. But despite returning back to Cape Town every time with nothing
tangible out of the meetings that we attended, our zest and impulsion to get
our first opportunity never vanished.” Winning the Sizwe Medical
Fund account has given impetus to the company’s plans. “Sizwe Medical
Fund is a medical aid for the people. Partnering with Mandisi Ads in support of
the OOH campaign at Cape Town International Airport was another touchpoint we
saw would reach the business and the leisure traveller crisscrossing between
the two major financial hubs by bringing brand efficacy closer,” said Dr Simon
Mangcwatywa, principal officer of the Sizwe Medical Fund. In terms of the Prasa
deal, Mandisi Ads will operate at “iconic and appealing OOH sites at various
train stations, such as the Cape Town Train station in the CBD, the main Durban
CBD train station, Park Station in Johannesburg, just to name a few”. In addition, clients’ brands are set not just be present in metro cities, said Maqetuka, but also set to have a presence in rural areas and in small towns in provinces. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.