Thousands of community radio volunteers and stations have been hard hit by the coronavirus pandemic. Now the South African Community Radio Foundation (SACRF) has called on government for financial relief and for consideration in its economic recovery plans. “The SACRF is
lobbying various government entities with the long-term objective of enhancing
the ability of community radio stations to sufficiently service their
communities,” said SACRF director, Phankha
Sakoane. SACRF is currently engaging with the Office of the President (specifically the Covid-19 response team), the minister in the President’s Office and the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA) to actively procure funds for the relief of community stations most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Sakoane
said the 0ver 200-strong sector is severely under-resourced “with most unable to pay all the members of the team
that drives content that enriches the communities they serve. Thus there are
more than 5000 volunteers at these radio stations”. The SACRF is
engaging with the government to procure R25 million with around R100 000 or
more going directly to the radio stations in direct response to the COVID-19
pandemic. “We do however estimate that the sector requires an injection of a
minimum of R100 million (with at least R350 000 per station),” Sakoane said. He said it was
vital to focus on volunteers, who “passionately apply themselves within the
sector” and ensure they receive some remuneration or stipend so they are better
able to care for their families during this difficult time. Many radio
stations lack the resources to cover all their overhead costs including modern equipment
and employee salaries, he added. “We believe that the government should be employing a
nationwide co-ordinated campaign that not only provides radio stations with the
necessary content but also resources at this time. This is not currently the
case,” he said. “Community radio stations are often overlooked by
government entities in favour of advertising at the larger radio stations. We
believe a more co-ordinated national campaign would be more effective and also
beneficial to the stations themselves.” The Media
Connection works
with community radio in terms of airtime sales, access to brand activations and
insights driven marketing strategy. CEO Judy Milne concurs with Sakoane. “The Media Connection is passionate about the survival
and growth of an incredible media platform that is literally the heartbeat and
pulse of communities in South Africa,” said Milne. “So we add our voice to the
call to Government to provide support and assist assistance to the Community
Radio sector with real, genuine long term commitment.” Director Simon Milne
points out that like other media, “Advertising revenue has seen a decline and
many of the stations need additional assistance in order to continue with their
fundamental and critical communication mandate to their people”. He agrees
stations should be given operational funding at this time. Sakoane said he wasn’t
aware of any closures, but that the pandemic had worsened an already tough
operational environment. Still, it is working with the National Campus and Community  Radio Association
of Canada in order to design the best paradigm to apply to South Africa to
enable community radio stations to be become truly sustainable and play an even
bigger part in being an agent of positive change in our society.  SACRF
has also established an innovation radio program network that focuses on
research on some of the health-related issues between the two countries. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.