The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa entered lockdown, businesses closed across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s BIG move: Andpeople shares starter pack of tools for the next generation of creative entrepreneurs Earlier
this month, Andpeople, a
pioneer in the youth marketing space, decided to take proactive action
to counter further uncertainty and volatility, and closed its doors as of June
2020. Now,
with the goal of adding value in these uncertain times, the agency behind an
array of  groundbreaking pieces of work for the likes of Adidas,
Levi’s, Jose Cuervo, Spotify, Ray-Ban, Glenfiddich, Bacardi and more, will be
sharing a start up pack full of the necessary templates and tools that
the next generation of creative pioneers can use to fast track their business
development. “This is an unprecedented time,” said
Duncan Maclennan, managing director of Andpeople, “where creative businesses
across the board are feeling the pressure to adapt, change, or be rendered
obsolete. On the flipside of this, what we know for sure, is that from this
crisis a new generation of creative thinkers will emerge, new businesses, led
by young people that will challenge the status quo, much like we did when we
launched eight years ago.” Andpeople, he reaffirmed, always existed
to grow the brands they worked with by creating value in the lives of young
people. “In closing our business,” adds
Maclennan, “we felt it fitting to extend our philosophy and its legacy for a
new generation of young leaders, by giving them access to tools and simple
practical elements that will bolster their growth and equip them to operate
credibly and professionally.” Maclennan says that the pack is a
collection of practical business tools that Andpeople has accumulated or
developed over the past eight years – simple things most aspiring young
creative entrepreneurs either don’t know, or fail to think about. Think
templates, schedules, guides, contracts and administrative tools that are
fundamental building blocks of running a successful, professional organisation,
equipped to grow. Download
Andpeople’s free agency start up pack here People moves Sureshnie Rider is the Cotlands Celebrity
Ambassador for the #StrongTogether campaign hosted by Princess Charlene of
Monaco. Sureshnie Rider, award winning radio personality
and newsreader on 5FM, will represent Cotlands in the #StrongTogether Celebrity
Ambassador Challenge hosted by the Princess Charlene of Monaco Foundation. The #StrongTogether initiative is a symbol of unity
and solidarity that is encouraged by Monaco’s sovereign family Prince Albert II
who contracted and recovered from the coronavirus in March. The COVID pandemic
has put a lot of strain on many countries and especially developing countries like
South Africa. Through the #StrongTogether platform the Foundation hopes to
raise global awareness for our most vulnerable children that don’t have a
voice. “I am thrilled to have Sureshnie on board as an
ambassador for Cotlands. Sureshnie is a successful radio personality, an
amazing mother and is committed to making a difference,” said Dr Monica Stach,
Cotlands CEO. “We are honoured to have her represent us and to raise awareness
for millions of young children that have no access to early learning opportunities.” If you vote or donate for our Cotlands ambassador,
you can stand a chance to join Sureshnie at the F1 Monaco Grand Prix in 2021 as
a guest of HSH Prince Albert of Monaco and HSH Princess Charlene. The
#StrongTogether awareness challenge runs until Tuesday, 9 June 2020 and you can
pledge your support by voting or donating for Sureshnie by clicking here. Sureshnie Rider added, “I want to be part of the
change I want to see in the world and truly lend my voice to making a
difference. Cotlands represents so much of my dream to make this world safer
and more beautiful for our little ones. Help me make that difference and let’s
show Cotlands the love it deserves.” Lerato
Letsoalo joins specialist radio agency Ultimate Media Specialist
radio agency Ultimate Media have announced that Lerato Letsoalo will be joining
the company. Letsoalo is an experienced radio professional with a long and
successful track record in sales and management across a number of stations,
including Ukhozi FM and, most recently, POWER 98.7 and Capricorn FM. He will be responsible for managing the Johannesburg agency portfolio and will work closely with Simon Parkinson, director of Ultimate Media. Ultimate Media offers a full turnkey service to media agencies and clients in all areas of radio. The company has made its mark over the past nine years in the conceptualisation and implementation of integrated campaigns across multiple radio stations and associated digital channels. Letsoalo
and Ultimate Media will also be joining forces as equity partners to set up a
new venture which will explore revenue streams from advertising categories
previously untapped by Ultimate Media. “The
next few years are going to be a critical time for media agencies and for the
radio industry. There will be huge pressure to cut costs yet still deliver
increased value to clients” said John Walls, MD of Ultimate Media. Letsoalo
commented, “This is an exciting time in media and, specifically, the radio
industry with Covid-19 presenting us with challenges that are forcing us to
create new ways to advertise. While some might be deterred by the changes we’re
facing, Ultimate Media are seeing it as an opportunity to get creative and try
new avenues. Spheralytical appoints Shannon Atherfold as chief
marketing officer Three hundred and sixty degree digital services
agency, Spheralytical, has appointed Shannon Atherfold as its chief marketing officer
from 1 June 2020. She was previously head of digital at global communications
consultancy, Instinctif Partners Africa, where she was responsible for the
digital and content and creative practice area. Her focus includes digital audits and strategies,
search engine optimisation (SEO), search engine marketing (SEM), social media,
web diagnostics and workshops. In addition to being a digital and accredited
SEO practitioner, Atherfold has a solid knowledge of corporate communications
and public affairs, and is a specialist writer. “We are excited to welcome Shannon to the
Spheralytical team,” says Dr Jan van Niekerk, the company’s CEO. “We can now
truly offer clients everything from A-Z, eliminating the need to consult with
multiple agencies. Shannon, who has 13 years’ experience in the communication’s
industry, will help us expand our offering to include expert copywriting, PR,
positioning, crisis communications and media training. She will also drive the
growth of our data science division, where we will assist clients in analysing
and monetising their data.” Business moves Mickey Llew expands business offering to
Australia Performance marketing and SEO agency, Mickey Llew has
expanded its footprint by establishing a branch in Australia to service clients
with global reach. Having recently opened an office in Cape Town, the agency continues to build on
its solid portfolio of clients (including leading fast food chains and
financial services giants), offering a range of digital marketing services
including paid
and organic search, Google optimisation, and content strategies. “Establishing a Mickey Llew offering in Australia
is a huge move for us, and one that we’re proud to be able to do in a time
where budgets are being cut across the globe due to the global pandemic,
despite the fact that internet traffic nearly doubled in March and April,
compared to traffic at the beginning of this year,” said David Jenkins, co-founder of Mickey
Llew. “We have built very successful relationships with
our local clients and, thanks to the results we achieved and how our approach
complements its business model so effectively, we’ve secured the opportunity to
engage with their global arms.” Having confirmed the agency’s operating
registration in mid-May, the local team there began work almost immediately,
developing a foothold in the Australian market. As with most expansions into
foreign territories, the team’s first priority will be to deliver on client
requirements and adapting digital marketing strategies while engaging with the
right stakeholders on the ground to secure reliable referrals on team members
as they build up the Australian office. The Australian clients will, for the time being, be managed from Mickey Llew HQ in Johannesburg in line with the agency’s owner-run, owner-managed approach to business as the team grows to scale. IABSA invites participation in digital influencer marketing survey The Interactive Advertising Bureau South Africa (IAB SA) Digital Influencer Marketing Committee, formed in October 2019, has been working towards generating clearly defined and commonly agreed guidelines, standards, best practice, definitions and benchmarks, in collaboration with IAB Global, to enable the media and marketing industry to make better digital decisions in this growing segment of the industry. “As part of the process to develop a common set of definitions and expand into secondary projects on best practice, measurement and benchmarks, the IAB SA Digital Influencer Marketing Committee invites the media and marketing industry, as well as broader stakeholders in the digital influencer marketing community, to participate in this survey,” said Paula Hulley, IAB SA CEO. “The objective is to better understand the current market management of digital influencer marketing to reach their customers in a relevant and meaningful way.” Says Stephane Rogovsky, CEO and Founder R-Squared Digital and the Committee Lead said that based on the results from the survey, the IAB would “get a much clearer understanding of the current landscape and expectations, broken down by category of industry player and job function, which will be used as groundwork to start the analysis”. Once they collate all of the results, the IAB will be integrating this with independently sourced data in order to report back on the results and ask for industry input. The survey will take a maximum of five minutes to complete and is available here. Deadline is Friday, 26 June 2020 National Geographic Kids switches to digital Creature
Media, publisher of National Geographic Kids in South Africa, has announced
that the magazine will be switching from print to digital editions in both
English and Afrikaans for the foreseeable future. It’s
by no means good-bye, rather a way to weather the turbulence that the Covid-19
pandemic brought to the global economy and the local magazine industry, which
was hard-hit by print and distribution channel closures. In recent years the
industry has seen a steady decline in both circulation and advertising revenue
and unfortunately the onset of the pandemic has expedited the unavoidable
decision to switch to digital. “With
NG KiDS turning 16 years old in June, it’s been an especially difficult
decision to discontinue the print edition, but one we had to make in order to
survive,” said marketing manager, Lisel Daniels. “We have the most loyal
readers, whom we thank for their loyalty over the years, and whom we ask for
continued support. We understand it will be an adjustment, but we’re making
every effort for a smooth transition and provide content that will educate and
entertain our readers. We’re in the process of informing all stakeholders of
the impending changes and looking forward to building new and innovative
partnerships going forward.” Access
the digital versions will be free until 30 June 2020 by clicking on bit.ly/FreeDigitalZAENG for the English or bit.ly/FreeDigitalZAAFR for the Afrikaans issue. Harvest SA’s fully interactive
digital edition goes live Harvest SA has been published since
2012 as one of South Africa’s leading business publications in the agricultural
sector. “Our continuous drive for excellence
in terms of clients and editorial content has put us on a pedestal in a country
where agriculture remains one of the largest industries,” it said in a
statement. “Much like the sector itself, we must
innovate and as the saying goes ‘move with the times’.” The 46th issue of Harvest SA is its
first fully interactive digital magazine offering which is free to read. “Our regular
readers cover farmers and agricultural stakeholders around the country. This has the ability to increase our
readership six-fold while ensuring our content is accessible to on your digital
device – tablet, desktop, iPad or cellphone.” Click on the link below to read
our latest edition. Harvest SA June
edition Fully Interactive Digital Publication A real
opportunity for leading brands to get to know your customers. An innovative digital e-commerce platform, designed
and developed in South Africa, has uncovered the Holy Grail of
business-to-consumer (B2C) interactions. “We are challenging leading brands to rethink their
digital marketing strategies in favour of meaningful customer interactions
through our Brand Rewards solutions,” said Rob Anderson, CEO of Brand Hubb. He
believes that brands are presently directing their digital advertising spend to
the wrong recipients. Brand Hubb has a four-year track record in building
customer loyalty in a digital world. Anderson has supported and funded the
business since its establishment, with early backing from ex-CEO of Dimension
Data, Brett Dawson. The firm is leading innovation in the digital market space
from both a ‘marketing fundamentals’ and systems perspective. “Fundamentally, we propose redirecting the flow of
marketing expenditures to the end-customer and expanding campaign reach via
customer networks,” said Anderson. “On the systems front we have introduced an
e-commerce platform plus application programming interface (API) that allows
brands to offer Brand Rewards on their own online properties”. Brand Hubb will
soon announce the ‘Chip In’ programme, aimed at expanding the reach of the
programme among family, friends, and followers of customers. The Brand Rewards solutions are structured around
measurable loyalty reward programmes that allow brands to pay customers for a
range of real-time interactions. iiDENTIFii caters for growth with Microsoft iiDENTIFii,
South Africa’s groundbreaking digital identity artificial intelligence company,
have expanded their platform onto the Microsoft Azure cloud. The
exponential rate at which iiDENTIFii is growing has allowed for their platform
to be deployed across a multi-hosted global infrastructure within a matter of
months. This locally based, innovative, artificial intelligence company which
is focused on the augmentation of online and offline identity has expanded its
global infrastructure to the Microsoft Azure Cloud. An always on, ability to
scale on demand and regulatory compliant cloud facility made the Microsoft
Azure Cloud one of the obvious additions to the hosting environment. Kotex
commits R43 million to Plan
International to expand menstrual hygiene education and access The global COVID-19 pandemic has
demonstrated the strength of women around the world who are leading the
response as doctors, nurses, scientists, engineers, farmers, public servants,
volunteers and in many other essential roles. At the same time, the job loss
resulting from the pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on women and has
left more than 743 million girls in 185 countries out of school. In response, Kimberly-Clark and its Kotex brand are engaging consumers,
communities and employees in a global effort, the Kotex
She Can Initiative, to fight stigmas within society,
ensure access to education, and open doors for women and girls to pursue their
dreams. “The stigma attached to menstruation or
simply the lack of access to products will keep millions of women and girls
from pursuing dreams of becoming one of those heroes on the front lines,” said
Juanita Pelaez, Kimberly-Clark. “The Kotex She Can Initiative is a long-term
effort to build a future where a period never gets in the way of any woman’s
progress.” The Kotex She
Can Initiative will focus its social impact of Kimberly-Clark’s feminine care
brands in four key areas: Kimberly-Clark
and Kotex are sponsors of Menstrual
Hygiene Day, a global
awareness program launched by WASH United in 2014 to bring global attention to the lack of menstrual hygiene
management access, education and sanitation affecting millions of women and
girls. FreshStop launches Digital Campaign to thank its
Frontline Employees Retail employees, who prior to the health
pandemic were assets to the business, have become invaluable as they continued
to serve customers throughout lockdown while most people stayed home. To thank them
for their service and heroism, FreshStop launched a #ThankYoufromFreshStop digital campaign to
recognise their staff and reflect their appreciation. According to Joe Boyle, Director at FreshStop, their people have become their heroes. “Our teams have managed to get to work under extreme conditions, keep our stores well stocked and tidy, focus on health and hygiene standards and provide top-class customer service with a smile. “The campaign reflects our thanks to all our staff – from the cashiers, kitchen staff, manager and cleaners to the shelf packers and truck drivers. We want our customers and communities to know that we support every one of them, and especially our staff, during this difficult time and that we are here to lend a hand,” said Boyle. FreshStop has also been able to maintain job security for its employees, and the business has supplied its employees with Fresh Produce food parcels that contain healthy food items and essentials. The convenience store industry has become one of
the many retail sectors to step up and provide an essential service during
lockdown. Their product offering has been widened and many brands now offer
delivery services via Mr D Food and Uber Eats in certain areas. But the basics
of providing a clean, healthy and welcoming retail environment is still top of
mind. Facebook and Red Cross Launch #AfricaTogether Facebook and the International Red Cross and Red
Crescent Movement are partnering to launch #AfricaTogether – a digital campaign
and two-day festival on 4-5 June featuring artists from across Africa to
encourage continued vigilance against Covid-19. #AfricaTogether will include a festival with
performances by artists such as Aramide, Ayo, Femi Kuti, Ferre Gola, Salatiel,
Serge Beynaud, Patoranking, Youssou N’dour among many others, as well as a
digital awareness campaign with prevention messages developed with Red Cross
and Red Crescent health experts and targeting simultaneously Facebook users in
48 countries across sub-Saharan Africa. The event will be streamed on Facebook Live on
the 4th June in English and hosted by the Nigerian popular actor and comedian
Basketmouth and in French on the 5th June by the renowned media personality Claudy
Siar. To watch the live shows, viewers can tune in to the Facebook Africa page
and Red Cross and Red Crescent Facebook pages. To register and learn more about
the artist lineup and how to tune in, please visit the Facebook event pages in English and in
French. Making
moves Register now: Media Freedom
and Freedom of Expression in Africa – a free Wits Online Course The now
well-established media freedom and freedom of expression course Media Freedom and Freedom of Expression in Africa’, run by the Wits LINK Centre and WitsX, is now open for registration. In its
third year, this is a free online course, which in 2020, will be running for
seven weeks instead of six, to include materials on media freedom issues in the
Covid-19 era. The course runs from 15 June – 3 August 2020. The world
is in a Covid-19 health crisis and information disorder and “fake news” is
rife. The media’s role, and good policy infrastructure, in these times is more
critical than ever to tackle these information challenges. The sustainability
of media is also under threat, said Guy Berger, director of Freedom of
Expression at UNESCO, one of the supporters of the programme, who added that:
“There will be a seventh week added to the course, addressing these issues and
responses to it.” With the
help of international funders, including the Bertha Foundation, the Namibian
Media Trust, Free Press Unlimited and FESmedia Africa, the entire seven week
course, including being able to download all course materials is free (although
to obtain a certificate does involve a $49.00 fee). The organisers are hoping
that women, in particular, will consider taking the course even though research
shows that they have lower rates of accessing the Internet than men. This MOOC
course, available on the global edX platform, aims to empower activists, students,
regulators, journalists, lawyers, and everyone interested in ensuring a free,
pluralistic and independent African media. World sport
returns – and SuperSport will be there for the best of it With the imminent return of Premier League
soccer, the long freeze on international sport due to the coronavirus pandemic
is beginning to thaw and SuperSport will be there when the action resumes. Next weekend will see the resumption of the
Premier League with 92 matches lined up to complete the season, with Liverpool
looking to secure their first title in 30 years. SuperSport’s stellar soccer offering
includes La Liga and Serie A, both of which will make their returns this month. Action in Spain will be intense: from 11-12 June
11, there will be at least one La Liga fixture played each day before all 20
clubs play their final two matches simultaneously on 15-19 July 15. Meanwhile, the Italian sports minister gave
the go-ahead for a June 20 resumption of Serie A. The league was suspended on 9
March with Juventus leading by a point with 12 rounds of matches remaining. “With SuperSport broadcasting three of the
best soccer leagues in the world, a feast awaits fans,” said Gideon Khobane,
SuperSport chief executive. “The leagues’ closed-doors policy may take some
getting used to, but the television product ought to be as thrilling as ever.” Several international sport franchises,
World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) and
NASCAR racing among them, have already been on the schedule with live events
for several weeks. Soon joining these will be New Zealand’s
newly-created Aotearoa rugby event involving the Blues, Chiefs, Hurricanes,
Crusaders and Highlanders. This begins on June 13 and SuperSport will broadcast
all matches live. And on Friday, the Investec Coronation Cup
horse race will take place in Britain, with a live broadcast on SuperSport. Next week also heralds the return of PGA
Tour golf. The play resumes on June 11 with the Charles Schwab Challenge in
Texas, beginning a stretch of 25 straight weeks of tournament golf. Early next month, Formula One will also be
back, with the World of Champions broadcasting the revised season, beginning in
Austria on the weekend of July 3-5. International
cricket will also come roaring back when England host West Indies for three
Tests in the space of 21 days, starting July 8. The three matches, which will
all be broadcast on SuperSport, will be played behind closed doors. SABC radio stations, Ukhozi FM, Umhlobo Wenene, Lesedi FM and Thobela FM celebrate 60 years of broadcasting The SABC’s four radio stations, Ukhozi FM, Umhlobo
Wenene FM, Lesedi FM and Thobela FM are celebrating
60 years of excellence in broadcasting since their
inception today. All four stations have successfully served the different
African language groups and each has secured a spot in the top 10 of
South Africa’s most popular radio stations. Due to the effects of COVID-19 and
the national lockdown regulations in place, all the stations will confine their
celebrations to on-air activities this year by reminiscing on each station’s
yesteryears and giving away massive prizes to their respective listeners. “Most of our radio stations were established during
a difficult period in our country’s history, to service and meet the language
and cultural needs of our people at the time. But these stations went beyond
that and inspired black people to see beyond their bleak circumstances,” said SABC
Group Executive for Radio, Nada Wotshela. “Today, our stations operate in
highly competitive environment and offer programming that is authentic and
audience centric, with quality content at the fore front”. Wotshela added, “Looking back, we also pride
ourselves as South Africa’s talent hub and the home of today and yesterday’s
best radio personalities.  Many top radio personalities started their
careers and were groomed at the SABC. Some of these personalities have
contributed tremendously to the industry and have taken on various leadership
roles”. SARLA and Spar warm
hearts this winter As the first cold spell of
winter hits the Highveld and temperatures plummet, the South African Rugby
Legends Association (SARLA) and players from the Lions Rugby team joined
forces to bring some warmth to communities in Gauteng, on Sunday. Lions
captain Elton Jantjies, has been part of SARLA President Gavin Varejes’s food
parcel initiative for the last four Sundays. This Sunday, Jantjies and some of
his Lions teammates shopped for essential food items and packed them into
parcels with blankets for distribution to communities in need. The event took
place at SPAR, the Wedge Shopping Centre, Rivonia Road, Morningside. “I
was inspired by Gavin and SARLA’s commitment to help those who have been the
most affected during the COVID-19 lockdown period”, said Jantjies, “especially
the example set by our Rugby Legends, including Joel Stransky, John Smit and
Warren Brosnihan. So, I decided to put a call out to a few of my Lions
teammates to join me this Sunday to help”. Having
not seen his teammates for a while due to social distancing measures, Jantjies
also sees this as the perfect opportunity for his team to get together and
enjoy some face-to-face time, having spent the last eight weeks apart. “So, not only are we getting together to do some good, but we are also getting together for the good of the team,” he said. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.