The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Machine_
launches new digital experience content platform in response to COVID-19 and
client needs COVID-19 has not just brought deep disruption and
tragic loss of life; it has also heightened the importance of internal
communication within companies – while also challenging the way in which
companies traditionally communicate. This is according to Sarah Browning-de Villiers, chief content officer
at Machine_, who said printed material was untenable during stricter lockdown
levels, and employees and stakeholders were experiencing email fatigue at a
whole new level. “In addition, digital experience platforms traditionally used
by publishers, like PDF flipbook solutions, simply do not offer a truly
customisable and immersive experience for users.” She says that since winning Sanlam Group’s
internal communications business effective February 2020, Machine_ has been
hard at work reimagining the Group’s internal communications content strategy
with its communications team. “We’ve been working on an immersive storytelling
experience supercharged by smart tech – StoryStackr
– for a few months, but COVID-19 catalysed this effort and shone a spotlight on
the need for a product like this,” she added. “We’re delighted it’s launched at
a time when our clients need it most, starting with Sanlam.” A much-loved component of Sanlam Group’s internal
communications includes a print magazine, newly launched in April as Sanlam
Connect. Within a matter of weeks, StoryStackr was harnessed, launching
Sanlam Group’s first fully immersive and interactive content experience for
internal staff and stakeholders. People moves FCB
Joburg/Hellocomputer Group MD Thabang Skwambane one of world’s ‘most creative’ International advertising, media & technology
journal, Adweek, has included one of South Africa’s leading admen, Thabang
Skwambane, on its 2020 Creative 100 Honour Roll. Published annually to celebrate the most inspiring
minds in marketing, media and culture, this year Adweek Creative 100
acknowledges worldwide talent in a time that has brought the Earth together. In
making the list, Skwambane joined fellow South African Trevor Noah, celebrities
John Legend and Christy Tiegen, The Bon Appétit Test Kitchen Team, and
influencer Zendaya. Prefacing the honours roll, Adweek wrote: “The
first half of 2020 will be remembered by history as a time that not only tested
the world, but also brought it together more closely than any other event in a
generation. “For international creative leaders, who’ve
traditionally faced starkly different obstacles in each of their markets, the COVID-19
pandemic has created a consistent challenge across all borders. As the world
enters a period of recovery and re-emergence, these creative leaders will be
entrusted with helping guide clients along a thoughtful, productive path.” Skwambane featured on the Global Creative Leaders
list of 12 people recognised as shaping the world’s most inventive marketing. Miles Murphy heads up Wunderman Thompson South Africa Miles Murphy has officially started in his role as
CEO at Wunderman Thompson South Africa, one of the county’s largest
marketing services agencies. For the past 30 years, Murphy built a career in
marketing and technology and is renowned for being the founder and director of
Liquorice, an award-winning digital marketing agency launched in
2005. Within a decade, the agency was thriving and attracted the attention
of Publicis Groupe. Following a successful sale to this multinational
communications network, Murphy was asked to stay on as COO within Publicis
Groupe Africa where he led 42 agencies across 36 African markets. Forced to adapt his First 100-Days Plan under the
new circumstances, Murphy has prioritised relationship building as well as
helping both staff and clients navigate through the disruption. Murphy’s vision is to build Wunderman Thompson SA
into the leading tech-enabled integrated agency with creativity and innovation
at its core. He intends to firmly entrench the agency as a growth partner to
its clients with experts in innovation, data, digital, user experience, design
and technology – inspiring consumers to connect with brands. Eclipse Communications welcomes back
an agency veteran. Eclipse Communications has expanded
its business, bringing on two new streams and a few heavy-hitters to manage the
agency’s expansion plan. This month, the agency welcomed back Natasha Kleyn as
a Senior Account Director for the consumer stream in Johannesburg. Oliver South Africa welcomes new Business Unit
Director Oliver South Africa has welcomed Nthabiseng
Lekoaletsoe as its new business unit director. Lekoaletsoe’s appointment will
further bolster Oliver South Africa’s offering and provide new vivacity to the
brand, reinforcing Oliver’s commitment to its clients. Lekoaletsoe’s journey in the advertising industry
began with household names such as Standard Bank, Microsoft and Coca-Cola. This
fantastic start evolved into a career featuring the ‘who’s who’ of well-known
companies and entities – from consumer brands and financial services to public
sector departments and major telecommunications enterprises. Armed with over a decade’s worth of experience in
the industry, Lekoaletsoe joined Oliver South Africa in February this year. PRCA launches global ethics council The PRCA recently announced the launch of its
Global Ethics Council (PRCA GEC), to uphold and elevate ethical standards in
the public relations and communications industry. Its inaugural chairman is
David Gallagher, international president of Omnicom, former chairman of the
PRCA, and former president of ICCO. The PRCA GEC is composed of a small number of the
world’s most respected practitioners, alongside two external expert members. Its launch reflects the PRCA’s status as the
world’s largest PR professional body, and the organisation’s actions in raising
ethical standards in the industry over recent years, particularly since the
expulsion of Bell Pottinger in 2017. Bridget von Holdt,
business director of BCW Africa and president of ICCO Africa said: “The
debate on media independence, fake news, manipulated photos, public trust and
safety of journalists has increased. It is now more important than ever to
communicate in an open, transparent and authentic way. It is trust that
elevates us to higher levels; that grounds us deeply in our relationships with
different stakeholders.” Leading
communication specialist uses her rare cancer to highlight African Excellence
during #Covid19 A leading South African communications specialist
and social entrepreneur is using her rare cancer to highlight the importance of
resilience, community and African excellence during a time of unprecedented
challenges for the world. Vanessa Perumal, the founder of JT Communication
Solutions, spent 24 days in hospital – of which 22 days was in ICU and High
Care – following a total laryngectomy necessitated by the cancer, which was
discovered in her larynx just five days before her surgery. “To save my life I traded my voice box,” said
Perumal with her trademark directness. “This is a huge leverage in the work I
activate as a media specialist, communications and digital futuristic.” One of the flag bearers of black excellence in
the PR and communications agency space, JT Comms has, under Perumal’s guidance,
consistently worked to amplify and build original African narratives.
Showcasing the excellence of a medical team in Africa treating a rare cancer is
part of why Perumal is sharing her experience through her Miraculous Moments
diary on Facebook. She also wanted to highlight the work of the healthcare
workers whom she encountered and contribute to the training of nurses who had
not encountered a cancer like hers before. Hilton
appoints Andrew McLachlan to spearhead African growth Hilton has appointed Andrew McLachlan to
the role of managing director, cevelopment, Sub-Saharan Africa. He joins the
company with over 30 years’ experience of the African hospitality market in
Operations and Development roles and will oversee its ambitious growth plans in
the region. Patrick Fitzgibbon, Hilton’s SVP of
Development for EMEA said: “Andrew is a well-respected figure in the African
hospitality industry, and it is great testament to the momentum behind Hilton
that he has decided to join our team.  He
will work closely with the teams we have in place in Dubai, Cape Town and
Nairobi to drive hotel growth, building on the milestone we reached last year
of 100 properties trading and under development on the
continent.” Business moves CBS Justice launches advertising sales in South Africa in partnership with DStv Media Sales AMC Networks International UK has
announced the launch of advertising sales on factual entertainment channel CBS
Justice. CBS Justice will be joining the DStv Media Sales portfolio from 10
June 2020. CBS Justice launched across Africa in
November 2019 and is currently available to DStv Premium and Compact Plus
customers (DStv channel 170). The channel investigates some of the world’s most
compelling true crime cases and features a curated selection of original and
acquired content. This includes expert-led original productions New Scotland Yard Files, The Real Prime
Suspect, Donal MacIntyre’s Murder Files, Secrets of a Psychopath and Evidence of Evil, and acquisitions Cold Justice, Murder For
My Man and Homicide’s Elite. SA
agency launches sister company Greater Than, an award-winning strategic,
full-service PR and Communications agency in South Africa, has launched its
sister company, GTi Communications. Based in Israel, GTi Communications will be
servicing the African, European and Middle Eastern region to fill a gap in the
market. Galia Kerbel, owner and managing director of
Greater Than and GTi Communications, said the agency was in a prime position to
expand its service offering beyond South African borders to serve local and
global brands. Kerbel is a South African entrepreneur and global
communications expert with over 24 years of experience in full-service PR,
Event Management and Brand Marketing. Kerbel, who immigrated to Israel 3.5
years ago, is a results-orientated leader who brings valuable integrated
thinking and years of expertise to a global client base. Primedia Outdoor successfully executes first
Prime-Intelligence advertising campaign alongside Audi South Africa Following the success of their dynamic digital
capabilities, Primedia Outdoor have successfully executed their latest
technically innovative product offering, Prime(i) Road and Prime(i) Mall. Prime(i) short for Prime-Intelligence, offers
advertisers the unique opportunity for mass personalisation through Primedia
Outdoor’s state-of-the-art digital advertising platforms on both roadside and
in the mall environment. The technology-enabled digital advertising platform
allows for hyper-targeted and relevant brand messaging, enabling advertisers to
communicate to their intended audience on a whole new level with the use of
digital billboards. Eclipse
Communications launches two new business units Eclipse Communications, the PRISM winner for the
2020 Best Large PR Consultancy, has expanded its service offering to include
two new business units. AMP will cater to the arts and entertainment industry,
and Collide, a full-service creative business unit specialises in digital and
print design and events, including hybrid and virtual offerings. Said Kate Thompson-Duwe, strategy and new business
development for AMP, “Having worked in entertainment PR for many years and seen
the industry grow exponentially, it seemed only fitting to launch a focused
division using our collective years of experience and contacts to bring the
best to the best.” The second business unit, Collide, is a
full-service creative collective with a focus on solving today’s problems with
advanced technical, digital and virtual solutions. The start-up business unit
specialises in digital and print design as well as traditional, virtual and
hybrid events. EXCITING NEW PROMOTIONAL INITIATIVE AVAILABLE ON
OFM Promoting your brand and your business during the uncertain times brought about by Covid-19 has never been easier, thanks to an innovative new offering by OFM. OFM Live Link gives clients the opportunity to
deliver their marketing message through the influence of one of OFM’s popular
presenters. This means that an OFM presenter will visit their store or venue to
tell Central South Africa on-air and online about their products and services. Says Anchen Lintvelt, OFM Sales Manager: “Jamie
Notter said, ‘Innovation is change that unlocks new value.’ Covid-19 taught us
that one can always find new ways to do things. It requires listening to your
market and creating solutions for their needs. As a media and advertising
platform, it is very important to the OFM sales team to offer our advertisers
innovative and creative solutions that will add value and ensure a good return
on investment. One way we can do this, is to endorse their products and
services through our presenters.” The Live Link is a custom made product. Wochit boosts content library in Ruptly global
archive deal Ruptly, the global news and media agency, has announced
a strategic partnership with Wochit, the video library and creation platform
used by over 350 media brands worldwide. Under the deal, Wochit clients will be
able to draw on material from Ruptly’s extensive archive catalogue and
immediately edit and create their own videos within the Wochit platform. The new partnership enhances the Wochit user
experience by bringing Ruptly’s news and general interest videos to its
clients. Ruptly is renowned for unearthing unique stories and new perspectives
not covered by other outlets and Wochit customers will now be able to access
captivating content spanning genres from feel-good, human interest videos to
hard news. Radio
advertising made accessible for SMEs In the interests of helping small and medium
businesses, Johannesburg-based radio stations, Classic 1027 and Hot 91.9FM have
launched Lock ‘n Load, an initiative which helps these businesses to advertise
their special deals at a vastly-reduced rate. The Lock ‘n Load deals are only
available via the stations’ websites (www.classic1027.co.za and www.hot919.co.za) “Lock ‘n Load is our commitment to helping SME’s
get back on their feet and get customers through their doors,” said Lloyd
Madurai, MD of Hot 91.9FM. “Aside from offering unprecedented rates, we’ve made
it really easy to buy advertising and to get your message on-air very rapidly”.
Both stations boast a turn-around of 2 hours from booking to broadcast. The Lock ‘n Load proposition is designed for
businesses to advertise special offers and has already shown exceptional
results for businesses who have centered their message around a call-to-action. Interactive
virtual expo to replace physical shows for Decorex Joburg and 100% Design South
Africa 2020 Set
to go live online at 10h00 on 06 August 2020 – the same time as the originally
planned event would have opened its gates to greet the public at the Gallagher
Convention Centre in Gauteng – is an innovative virtual expo developed by the
Decorex Africa Portfolio and Reed Exhibitions. A first for the Decorex Africa
Portfolio, the virtual expo experience will replace this year’s physical
iterations of Decorex Joburg and 100% Design South Africa. The aim is to provide
exhibitors, members of the trade, and the public at large, with a unique online
opportunity to engage and conduct “business as unusual”. After
understanding that it would not be possible to host the country’s leading
interior design, décor and product design shows in their usual venues in 2020
due to lockdown restrictions, the team at Reed Exhibitions Africa have looked
to virtual solutions in a bid to continue to support the industry and its
exhibitors. Reed Exhibitions confirms that the decision not to host any physical events in 2020 is a
result of multiple discussions with the greater industry due to the impact of
COVID-19 and upon the advice of local and national health authorities. Source Food sprouts idea for new F&B business
incubator Covid-19 is wreaking havoc on commerce with many
food businesses facing certain doom. Source Food, South Africa’s leading food
marketing agency, has created an incubator to offer businesses in the food and
beverage industry the knowledge, skills and resources to take their product to
market or adapt their current offering. Sprout by Source Food is a team of experienced
food product developers, chefs, food stylists, photographers, marketers and
food industry professionals who are able to advise and support clients in
building a successful food or beverage brand. Jonathan Moldan, managing director of Source Food, is determined that Sprout’s goal is to uplift and empower anyone looking to refine their existing business or start their journey in this creative industry. “As we look at how radically our collective
reality has shifted in the time of Covid-19, now is an opportune time to invest
in yourself, become your own boss and focus on doing what you love. It’s
essential to be able to change your offering as the market’s needs change – and
as government legislation changes as we move between the various lockdown
levels.” Making
moves Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund needs your 67
kilometres This Mandela Day will be
the first ever marked amongst a global pandemic. As both the sports and
eventing industries are massively impacted by being unable to celebrate Mandela
Day through physical activations, this year the Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund
(NMCF) is bringing a massive virtual race – 67 Kilometres for Mandela Day – to
homes and streets everywhere. “With families, individuals and athletes largely
confined to their homes during lockdown, this initiative will secure much
needed funds while providing an entertaining goal driven purpose for exercise
enthusiasts around the country and the globe,” said event organiser Andrew
Ross, managing director of eventing and experiential agency Chaos Theory. “We’re inviting walkers, cyclists and runners to
join our virtual event online from anywhere in the world to make a huge
difference to the children of South Africa. What makes the ‘67 Kilometres
for Mandela Day’ event even more special is that this year NMCF celebrates
25 years of existence. The challenge can be completed anytime between
today and the 18th July when we acknowledge Mandela Day.” The online route will be uploaded for walkers,
runners and cyclists to follow through iconic South African landmarks starting
at The Apartheid Museum and travelling past the Nelson Mandela Children’s
Hospital, Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund, Constitution Hill and Lilliesleaf
farm, the route ends in Vilakazi Street, Soweto at Nelson Mandela’s home.” Join the 67 Kilometres for Mandela Day Facebook
group or follow #67km4MandelaDay SABC commemorates 2010 FIFA World Cup via #remember2010 campaign The
South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC), through its sports platform, SABC Sport, has launched a new
campaign to commemorate ten years since the broadcast of the 2010 FIFA World
Cup. The campaign #Remember2010,
is in line with the SABC’s commitment to keeping the public entertained
particularly under the current lockdown climate. The
public service broadcaster’s month-long campaign marks a decade since the
global spectacle of the FIFA World Cup was first hosted on African soil. 
As the official broadcaster, the SABC played a central role in leveraging the
power of its TV and Radio platforms to become the eyes and ears of all South
Africans, as we rallied behind the national soccer team, Bafana Bafana with the
‘Feel it, It is here Campaign’. It
is therefore fitting that the public broadcaster remembers 2010 by delivering sports
content that meet its public mandate while  serving the millions of
South Africans who rely on it for entertainment. A full programming
schedule for the campaign is available on www.sabcsport.co.za or @sabcsport on twitter and Facebook. Nederburg becomes WWF Conservation
champion Nederburg Wines has been granted WWF
Conservation Champion status, thanks to its far-reaching water stewardship
measures that address ways to improve water quality, balance, access, usage,
including for sanitation, and governance. The water management strategy it
follows is based on the principles set out by the internationally recognised
Alliance for Water Stewardship. “It’s very encouraging to have earned
the highest level of WWF recognition of champion status for what we’ve been
doing,” says Niël Groenewald, managing director of Nederburg. “We’ve had to
adhere to rigorous criteria and show innovation in how we manage our natural
resources. We’re proud of what we’ve achieved but there’s no place for
complacency. We plan to become even better at what we’re doing.” For the Diary COVID-19: Reflections, Challenges and Next Steps The Harvard Business School Africa Research Center
is pleased to invite you to the webinar series COVID-19: Reflections, Challenges and Next Steps, where HBS Faculty will share insights on Macro-Economics, Leadership, Strategy
and Execution relevant to Africa. Please join us in the second session of this four
webinar series as HBS professors Hakeem Belo-Osagie and Shikhar Ghosh share
insights with each other, two prominent African business leaders and you on Leadership in Uncertainty as relevant
to Africa during this global pandemic. With this series we strive to have
alumni and friends across Africa get to know HBS professors who are leading
work related to the continent, and also share with them the lessons that Africa
has for the rest of the world. Please click on the registration button below to
register for Session 2: Leadership in
Uncertainty – Thursday, June 11, 2020 4:00 pm – 5:00 pm WAT;
5:00 pm – 6:00 pm SAST; 6:00 pm – 7:00 pm EAT Register here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.