[PARTNER CONTENT] Live sport is back! With the imminent return of Premier League soccer, the long
freeze on international sport due to the coronavirus pandemic is beginning to
thaw and SuperSport will be there when the action resumes. The Premier League resumes 17 June with 92 matches lined up
to complete the season, with Liverpool looking to secure their first title in
30 years. Both La Liga and Serie A will also make their returns this
month. Action in Spain will be intense: from June 11 to July 12,
there will be at least one La Liga fixture played each day before all 20 clubs
play their final two matches simultaneously on July 15 and July 19. Meanwhile, the Italian sports minister gave the go-ahead for
a June 20 resumption of Serie A. The league was suspended on March 9 with
Juventus leading by a point with 12 rounds of matches remaining. “With SuperSport broadcasting three of the best soccer
leagues in the world, a feast awaits fans,” assured Gideon Khobane, SuperSport
chief executive. “The leagues’ closed-doors policy may take some getting used
to, but the television product ought to be as thrilling as ever.” Several international sport franchises, World Wrestling
Entertainment (WWE), Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) and NASCAR racing
among them, have already been on the schedule with live events for several
weeks. Soon joining these will be New Zealand’s newly created Aotearoa
rugby event involving the Blues, Chiefs, Hurricanes, Crusaders and Highlanders.
This begins on June 13 and SuperSport will broadcast all matches live. The Investec Coronation Cup horse is also broadcast live on
SuperSport. PGA Tour is back  from
June 11 with the Charles Schwab Challenge in Texas, beginning a stretch of 25
straight weeks of tournament golf.  Early
next month, Formula One will also be back, with the World of Champions
broadcasting the revised season, beginning in Austria on the weekend of July
3-5. International cricket will also come roaring back when England host West Indies for three Tests in the space of 21 days, starting July 8. The three matches, which will all be broadcast on SuperSport, will be played behind closed doors. For more on the opportunities presented by the return of live sport, please contact tebogo.moloto@dstvmedia.com Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.