The Publisher Research Council of South Africa and Nielsen have collaborated and PAMS2019 is now easily accessed on Nielsen’s iPort system. iPort is a dashboard creation tool, which was recently made
available to the South African market. “It is the latest in a
series of moves taken by the PRC to use the latest technological tools to make
its data accessible to users, following an upgraded and responsive website, the
inclusion of a handy SEM
calculator and effective social media
channels to ensure agencies are kept abreast of PRC news and can easily access
our data,” says CEO of the PRC, Josephine Buys. Buys emphasises that iPort
is not a planning tool competing with Telmar or Clear Decisions, but rather offers
agencies an overview of the whole PAMS2019 survey. Karen
Phelan, a member of the Advertising Media Forum’s board and veteran agency
planner, has tested the iPort system. “The PRC PAMS Dashboard provides a great overview of
the data available within PAMS 2019.  Whether you quickly want to get an
overview of the South African population’s reading habits, the demographic
profile of Sunday Times readers or a demographic profile of people who own a
Toyota, the data is easily and quickly accessible on the dashboard,” she says. “The data points have
been graphed and can be downloaded to Excel or as an image. The dashboard
provides a wealth of data points across all the reading metrics from
Paper/Digital Past 4 Weeks, AIR or Digital Past 4 Weeks. The graphs
reflect category readership for example, magazines, as well as title level data. 
Brand data is just as easily accessible, as is a profile of the
population.  A quick, user friendly, easy to navigate wealth of
information,” she adds. Hank Bento, Associate Director at
Nielsen Media South Africa, says from the moment they discovered the tool,
Nielsen believe it would benefit the media industry. “The PAMS Dashboard makes
PAMS available to everyone in a simple-to-use interface, and opens up access to
industry information, which previously was limited to the subscription of specialised
software only,” he says. “iPort positions PRC to
become an information gateway, allowing for the traditional deep dive through
third party software, as well as providing a top level interface that anyone can
access, without the need for special software. The more people who can access
the industry information, the better we all will be at planning for tomorrow!”
Bento explains. The platform will help: Buys says the iPort enables users to gain insights into the consumer behaviour of South Africans (the full adult national universe), delivering data on their habits and interests. “The topline results cover demographics, financial, shopping, household and motor vehicle data,” she adds. “It offers compelling reasons for targeting readers.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.