The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Avatar Agency acquires Durban FMCG powerhouse, Espresso Avatar Agency Group, the largest fully
black-owned agency group in South Africa, has grown its geographic footprint
with the acquisition of Durban-based integrated independent agency, Espresso DBN. This has boosted its below-the-line
and shopper marketing capabilities to address the growing demand for
insights-led FMCG and retail marketing. Espresso sold 51% equity to black empowerment
conglomerate M&N Brands, the holding company that owns Avatar. The deal
will result in Espresso being renamed Avatar
DBN. Antony Ellis, who co-founded Espresso with
Natalie French in 2001, will remain at the helm as managing director. French will
remain Avatar DBN’s executive creative director, working closely with Veli
Ngubane, Avatar’s chief creative officer. Avatar BUD Ayanda Dlamini will join
them in the new operation. Avatar DBN’s client list currently includes
Snowflake, Iwisa No.1, Nyala, BB Bakeries, Blue Ribbon, Toys R Us and Babies R
Us, Nivea, Eucerin, Labello, Lil-lets, Universal and Paramount Pictures Africa,
Mondi and many more. “While we see the continued pressure of Covid-19
on media and advertising spend in general, research indicates an upsurge in
food brand investment. Espresso’s FMGC expertise, combined with Avatar’s
digital pedigree and broad market insight will bring something truly unique for
our clients,” said Zibusiso Mkhwanazi, Group CEO of M&N Brands. Set against the backdrop of the pandemic, Avatar
launched a new business practice, Resilience at Avatar, in April to help
businesses navigate their way through the uncertainties. “This acquisition is
another step for us as we pivot as a business during these difficult times. We
believe in finding opportunities in the midst of crisis,” added Mkhwanazi. People moves Zimkhita Buwa, Tom Fels join Rogerwilco board Digitally-led marketing agency, Rogerwilco, has
strengthened its non-executive advisory board with the appointment of Zimkhita
Buwa and Tom Fels. Buwa leads Dimension Data’s intelligent business
applications core practice and is also a director of Silicon Cape. She was
previously COO of Britehouse. Fels, founder of Animarem – a boutique advisory
focused on impact projects – was previously group managing director of Publicis
Machine and CEO of Nurun, the Publicis-owned technology group. Welcoming the appointments, Rogerwilco CEO,
Charlie Stewart said, “We’re delighted to be able to call on the inputs of
Zimkhita and Tom as we strengthen our governance processes to support the next
phase of Rogerwilco’s growth. Both have impeccable pedigrees in the digital
marketing and business intelligence sectors. Scaling an agency is challenging at the best of
times and will be even more so in a COVID environment. Our advisory team will
play a key role in helping us maintain growth in our core South African and
European markets.” Rogerwilco has experienced compound annual growth
of 25% in recent years and is set to exceed that figure in its current 2020
financial year. Business moves Insurance industry sees increase in
advertising with new commercials Research
by Brand Intelligence firm Ornico shows an increase in new commercials in the
insurance industry with a sample of 228 new commercials in July 2020. This is
the highest number of new commercials recorded since February 2020, a month
before the original Covid-19 hard lockdown was introduced. While
marketing and advertising budgets were greatly reduced during lockdown and many
businesses grappled with expenses, an increase in new commercials in the
insurance industry is a positive sign. Television
and radio were favourite mediums with the most newcomer insurance commercials
(new executions) followed by print, mobile and others. People have been working
from home and travelling less due to Covid-19 restrictions. Hence, it is no
surprise then to see outdoor advertising being among the lowest mediums with
new executions. Motor vehicle insurance and funeral cover saw the most new ads
according to research. Outsurance
and Clientele were by far the biggest spenders across television with their
advertising taking up 12 664 of the total 29 130 spots. The industry
largely focused on corporate ads followed by retail commercials (29%) and live
reads across all total advertisement types. #AVeryBonangYear smashes SA viewership records and hits over a billion
impressions A Very Bonang Year redefined records after the premiere of part
one on Saturday, achieving over 1.3 billion hashtag impressions as viewers
tuned in to watch Bonang Matheba
on her ‘global expansion’ and transformation into an entertainment &
entrepreneurial phenomenon. The extraordinary amount of hashtag impressions – number 1
in South Africa over Saturday & Sunday – emphasised the ‘B Effect’ with
even more hashtag impressions than the 1, 1 billion reached during the launch
of The House of BNG last year. The premiere of Bonang’s special also pulled in a record
number of television viewers. “We
are excited to announce that A Very
Bonang Year reached a record-breaking 1.86 million viewership in its first
episode of broadcast. This is unheard of for any broadcast platform in South
Africa for a celebrity-driven reality show genre and at a time when SA viewers
have more reality TV content to choose from. As a channel we had
intentionally stayed away from celeb reality and for our first attempt at this
format, we are proud of this achievement as it further confirms a great
decision the channel took in acquiring and partnering with the show” said
Zandile Nkonyeni, Head of PR: SABC TV Channels. “Theresponse to A Very Bonang Year has been
truly remarkable, where once again a new benchmark has been set in the
entertainment industry. The series is testament that when you put your mind to
something, nothing is unachievable,” says Davin Phillips, Executive Director, Celebrity Services Africa
(C.S.A.), Bonang’s management team. Educational family channel Da Vinci will continue to be available to DStv viewers in South Africa DStv has now added educational kids and family
channel, Da Vinci, to its Premium, Compact Plus, Compact, Family and Access
Packages in South Africa. Da Vinci was originally made available to South
African viewers as a pop-up channel in March of this year and has now become a full-time
channel. This partnership highlights Da Vinci’s growing
distribution across Africa since 2014 and has now been available in more than
20 million households. “We are thrilled to continue our exposure in
Africa through an extension of our partnership with DStv. Our core values are
aligned to ensure that inspiring, educational content is promoted to local
communities across the continent,” Da Vinci Media’s CEO, Douglas Lloyd said. TNT bucks downward trend in movie market recording stellar June
performance Despite
an 11% decline in June’s movie market ratings, TNT, the home of Hollywood
blockbusters, ranked #1 ahead of all movie channels in South Africa. Regardless
of the overall decreasing trend, TNT saw a notable 22% increase in viewership
during weekend daytime programming driven by the two best-performing movies on
the channel for the month, Karate Kid
and 3 Ninjas. TNT
recently launched its long-form slate of TNT Original Movies, which kicked off
with Escape from Pretoria on the 4th of July during prime
time. Historically
a male-skewed channel, TNT has seen a growing appeal to women with 51% tuning
in versus 49% of male viewers and strong appeal amongst the 15 to 49-year-old
segment (which accounts for 60% of the total audience). Making
moves Think Bigger
– PSG adds bold collection of speakers to its webinar series Following on the success of the first round of Think Bigwebinars, PSGhas
added several new speakers to the series line-up. “We’ve added to our collection of bigger picture
thinkers to explore more topics, including the future of social governance,
medical regulation and enforcement, and local and global financial markets, to
name a few,” said Tracy Hirst, PSG’s chief marketing officer. Hirst will be
hosting a later discussion in the series on the future of media, featuring
award-winning journalist and filmmaker, Richard Poplak. The host of the Think Big webinar series is Bruce Whitfield, who continues to
generate fascinating discussions with featured experts. “I feel so privileged
to be tapping into some of the country’s sharpest minds and look forward to
sharing those conversations with you,” he said. Prof. Thuli Madonsela, Graeme Smith and Prof.
Glenda Gray are among the first of the new speakers added to the Think Big
webinar series line-up. To book your free, virtual seat for PSG’s Think
Big sessions, please sign up here: //www.psg.co.za/support/webinars/think-big-with-psg Future of Work Virtual Conference a ‘must-attend’
event for business in Africa Businesses on the
African continent are at a crossroads, with Covid-19 exacerbating existing
cracks in the system, creating an urgent need to adopt innovative technologies
for future success. CNBC Africa, in partnership with Forbes Africa and
prominent sponsors, is hosting a free virtual summit to outline technological
opportunities – hosted on Hopin, an online events platform that allows
attendees to engage in interactive virtual networking sessions and expo booths,
on Thursday, 20 August 2020 from 9am to 4pm CAT. To benefit fully from The
Future of Work Virtual Conference’s uniquely interactive platform, on-day
attendance is a must. “The Future of Work
Virtual Conference has a comprehensive speaker panel addressing a diverse range
of challenges and opportunities relevant to the current business climate,”
explained Roberta Naicker, Managing Director of the ABN Group. “This holistic
conference effectively provides business stakeholders – from SMMEs to top-suite
executives – with the technical knowledge and tools to navigate the vastly
different economy we’re entering. On-day attendance will ensure maximum value
for those wanting to, not only survive, but actually thrive using these new
technologies.” For the Diary Join us online
for Podmeet! Podmeet has announced
another virtual online podcasting event later this month. Guests are the team from Soccer Laduma Radio, who got into the podcast
game almost four years ago and have various shows, like their flagship, The Car
Wash. Date: Wednesday 19 August 2020 Time: 18.00 – 19.00 SAST RSVP here for the Zoom video call link to be sent to you in the days
before the event. You can reach us at podmeet@journalism.co.za Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.