[PRESS OFFICE] The luxury-goods and beauty sector has not escaped the effects of the Covid-19 disaster. It will take time to see if the spending patterns of wealthy individuals and regulations on non-essential products and services will change permanently, or whether they will go back to normal in time. What is certainly clear is that there is a need to look and feel your best, even in a global pandemic. How do you keep your beauty
business operational when social distancing is our reality? Is there even still
a market for beauty related items in lockdown? And why is this industry
important to our economy? We aim to answer all these questions and more in the
survival guide aimed specifically at this industry; with tips and techniques on
how your business can adjust to the many restrictions that have come with the
Coronavirus outbreak. The beauty industry is mainly made up of female SME and franchise owners.
This is an important source of economic growth as it empowers women with jobs
and skills that they can use to create a long-lasting income for themselves. Another element that
makes the beauty and nail salon industry attractive is the high demand.  Women are the largest consumer group with
highly valued purchasing power. The purchasing power of South Africa’s 18
million female consumers is not something to take lightly. According to
research company Nielsen, 21 million female consumers are expected in the local
market by 2025 and their labour force participation numbers are also set to
increase from the current 9.5 million to 11 million by the same year. So how can
businesses in this industry make sure they stay alive long enough to benefit from
this market? Here are a few tips. Although lockdown
restrictions have been lifted slightly, the uptake in walk-in clients, new
clients and repeat business might be slower due to clients being cautious about
getting infected with COVID-19. If there’s anything 2020 has taught businesses,
it’s the value of going digital. So, in order to increase turnover, you’re
going to need to make changes to your business to adapt to the current
landscape, to digitize your business for once and for all. You can do this by
gearing up your website to accommodate ecommerce facilities so your clients can
purchase products online. It’s also a good idea to incorporate Youtube or video
content on the website addressing specific beauty and skin concerns and shows
customers how to use your beauty products. You Tube tutorials are all the rage
now with massive uptake since lockdown, so utilize this to showcase your
products through specific trends, beauty tips, look books and step-by-step
guides to achieve certain looks. In addition to
digitizing the sale of your products, it’s important to rethink how you do your
services, and how you can capitalize on offering mobile salon services to your
clients by reaching them in their homes. Make this completely worth their while
by offering bulk discounts that serve all the members in the household.  For example, you could offer packages of 2 haircuts
and a colour treatment at a reduced rate, a manicure and pedicure at a lower
price, or kids’ haircuts for less. Given the realities of working from home, social distancing
and wearing masks, it has become much less important to wear makeup and
fragrance. For prestige brands, we see 55% and 75% declines in
cosmetic and fragrance purchasing, respectively, compared to last year. When
consumers return to work, many will continue to wear masks, which means they
may continue to not wear makeup. By contrast however, skin-care, hair-care, and
bath-and-body products appear to be benefiting from self-care and pampering
trends. Sales on candles, aromatherapy, and detox products as well as skin,
nail, and hair-care (including DIY hair and beauty products) have consistently
risen. This info is a powerful indicator of where companies should be focusing
when it comes to their ecommerce.  By
offering massive discount codes on the slower moving products such as make-up, your
consumers may be more incentivised to purchase. Another notable trend is the rise of
do-it-yourself (DIY) beauty care. Many beauty salons have closed, and even in
places where they have not, consumers are forgoing services because of concerns
about close physical contact. In addition, many consumers will likely face
economic difficulties after the COVID-19 crisis, given the loss of jobs and
savings. As a result, DIY hair colouring, nail care,
and care in other beauty categories are finding new customers. With online
sales of some of the most prestige-brand nail polish have seen double-digit
growth every week since lockdown began in March. This surge in DIY nail care
has some speculating that the current crisis’s lipstick effect has an added
dimension—the “nail-polish effect”. If your beauty product range consists of
products that users can utilise at home this is the time to punt those specific
products and utilising clever cross sell tactics (such as promotions and DIY
YouTube featured videos). You have a list of your current clients details, so utilise this to update them on how to shop their favourite beauty products and how you have adjusted your offering to the current global pandemic. Update your social media pages often, utilise redeemable coupon codes for added value and incentive for your clients to support businesses. Offer a free gift with the purchase of two or more products from your ecommerce site (this could be as simple as a few samples and a cosmetic bag with other branded items you have on hand). Introduce a monthly newsletter to keep your customers up to date on your blog or video content and maintain communication with your audience. Despite a rocky start to 2020 due to the global pandemic, the beauty
industry will keep on growing as long as business owners adjust theirour
marketing strategy, and shift their mindset and business to adapt to the
current demands. New products are invented, technology evolves and people always
want the latest and greatest of what is out there. Since there is no better
time to practise self-care than right now, the beauty industry can cater to
these demands and help clients feel good without the added risk or hefty price. Your beauty business does not have to come to
a complete halt because of the lockdown. Let us help you conduct a marketing
strategy that will keep your business operational and ensure sales recovered
are achieved as well as continued growth . For a full marketing strategy, or if
you need help managing your blog and custom e-mailers or promoting your social
media content, contact Arc Interactive on hello@arcinteractive.co. Let’s help you take your beauty business to new
heightsFor more information,
visit www.arcinteractive.co. You can also follow Arc Interactive on Facebook, Twitter or
on Instagram Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.