[PARTNER CONTENT] Easier navigation, better viewing experience. This thinking has driven SuperSport’s decision to drop the numbering system it has used for its channels for more than two decades, replacing them with a thematic offering around individual sports to ensure it is easier for viewers to find their favourite sports. From 1 September, SuperSport viewers on DStv will be able to enjoy special dedicated channels for leagues and sports, among them the PSL, the Premier League, La Liga, rugby, cricket, golf, tennis, motorsport and several others, which will now have a home to call their own. Not just live sport will be housed in
these channels: supplementary programming such as magazine shows and highlights
will add to the overall package. New to DStv subscribers across the continent will be the launch of the SuperSport Grandstand channel, immediately after Blitz at the front of the line-up. This flagship channel will host the best of any live curated sport available to Premium customers at any one time, including soccer, rugby, cricket, golf and tennis. There will be multiple themed channels, including a ‘Variety’ channel offering. Beyond this, DStv’s new sport line-up includes ESPN and ESPN 2, on channels 218 and 219. “This is a landmark decision in
SuperSport’s history and one we’re convinced will add a fresh and invigorating
dimension to our broadcasts,” said Gideon Khobane, chief executive of
SuperSport. “The changes will mean that additional
SuperSport channels of local and international sporting content will be added
to the DStv package. Genre channelling will no doubt increase awareness of a
broader range of content, which may have always been on the platform, but
wasn’t necessarily easy to discover. This signals a radical change designed to
make content discovery more seamless.” SuperSport broadcasts more live sport than any other broadcaster internationally and as much as these options are incredibly valuable to fans, the depth and breadth of content can make it difficult to find what they’re looking for. Exhaustive market research has shown that fans would prefer to enjoy the sport of their choice on a dedicated, named channel. For more details about the new SuperSport channel line-up, and where to find your favourite sport, visit the Home of Sport here. Contact Nabil.Abdool@dstvmedia.com or Tebogo.Moloto@dstvmedia.com Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.