The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Conversation
LAB appoints Uyanda Manana as MD in new grassroots ownership deal Digital agency Conversation LAB has sold
majority shares to several of its rising stars in a deal to drive change, build
relevance and champion diversity. Advertising and marketing professional,
Uyanda Manana, takes the helm at Conversation LAB with immediate effect,
joining four other black staffers as majority shareholders. Further black women shareholding is on offer, with Johannesburg-based
Manana already on the lookout for top talent. Manana
leaves her position as managing director of sister agency, BE, an agency she helped
build 18 months ago. BE now merges with Conversation LAB. “This is an exciting and tremendous opportunity for me as a black woman. I
get to lead an incredibly talented team of people across Durban, Cape Town and
Johannesburg in shaping our industry into something more reflective of our
multicultural society,” said Manana. “Diversity and cultural transformation is not only about access to
opportunity; it’s about acceptance too. It fosters an environment that gives people
the security and room to express and accept their uniqueness. It opens
up paths to creativity, making our work and processes that much richer and more
human.” One of Manana’s priorities is to strengthen the agency’s Johannesburg
offering, with plans to open doors in Soweto. “Being in a township
gives young black people real access and exposure to an industry that has been
out of reach for too long, and gives us access to the kind of raw talent we’re
looking for,” said Manana. “Importantly, it positions us in the heart of the
communities we represent and talk to.” Conversation LAB founder Kevin Power, based in
UK, has commuted between South Africa and the United Kingdom since 2017 after
setting up an office there, remains managing director of Conversation LAB
Holdings, focused on new business opportunities for the group overseas.
Co-founder Jon Oliff continues as chief technical officer at Conversation LAB. Said Power: “As an agency group we want to be
relevant and proud of our business structure and make up, and be a positive
force for change in our industry. It’s important too for staff morale,
inspiration and fulfilment. And it’s vital if we want to deliver work that is relevant,
honest and carries weight.” He said the move was more about grassroots
transformation than a “typical black empowerment deal” that often didn’t change
people’s lives in a meaningful or timeous way. Manana’s experience, empathy, ability
to problem solve, build strong senior relationships and “take people with her”
was critical to the deal, Power said. “We are not just changing the ownership of
the business; that’s the easy part and only goes some way in creating real
transformation. Critically we are changing our leadership, a far bolder move,
and a step change in our intentions and ambitions for the eight-year-old
agency,” he said. People moves Suhana Gordhan joins the DUKE Group as
executive creative director Award-winning advertising industry heavy-weight
Suhana Gordhan will be joining the DUKE Group as executive creative director. Having worked at agencies such as Ogilvy, the King
James Group, Black River FC, VML, Net#work, BBDO and FCB, Gordhan has shared
her creativity with brands such as Nando’s, Coca-Cola and USAID. Last year,
Gordhan’s work for Coca-Cola featured in Contagious Magazine as one of three
campaigns in The World’s Best Strategies. Wayne Naidoo, DUKE Group CEO, said: “Suhana brings
with her deep industry insights that will inform our creative campaigns, as
well as a fresh perspective. Her love for nurturing talent mirrors the values
that the DUKE Group holds, and we are excited to be welcoming her to new and exciting
opportunities in Cape Town.” Gordhan will take over from Mike Beukes, who is
relocating to London. Beukes has been with DUKE for
nearly four years and during his tenure has seen the agency ranked
within the top two most awarded small agency at Loeries. The agency
also placed as runner-up in the Medium-sized Agency category at
Adfocus ’19 and was voted as runner-up for “One to watch in SA” for 2020. “I have a
lot to gain from joining the DUKE Group, and I hope to learn and grow in a
different direction to what I’m familiar with. I look forward to sharing my
passion for ideas that really live in people’s lives, my specific and utter joy
for copywriting and my ability to nurture young talent,” Gordhan said. Relativ
Media announces new managing director Out
of home media specialists, Relativ Media, have appointed Michael Christoforos
in the role of managing director (MD). Christoforos brings more than eight
years’ experience in the out of home media sector, with a proven track record
as a key member of the Relativ Media team. He was previously head of business development,
having joined Relativ Media in 2016. Christoforos is replacing outgoing MD
Richard Wilkinson, who is immigrating to New Zealand. Sijadu
Mzozoyana, CEO of Relativ Media, said, “Michael is a well-versed, experienced
and well-regarded leader within the Relativ media stable. He has an already
established record of constant delivery in our business. His significant
business development experience, people skills and customer-centric executions
make him a natural successor to our outgoing MD. His network of strategic
business relationships is also an asset to us. His work speaks for itself and
as a result, he is the natural successor to Richard.” Speaking
on his new role, Christoforos said, “This appointment is a real privilege for
me, one that I am thrilled to assume. It will allow me to contribute more
positively toward moving Relativ Media forward with greater impact. Relativ
Media will never become complacent in our space, we will never settle for what
we have. Instead, we will strive to always be a market leader, ever learning,
pushing the boundaries, and always moving forward; a drive I look forward to
leading.” As
MD, Michael will continue to bring value both to their clients and the business
by maintaining Relativ Media’s ‘personal touch’ in the way in which they
conduct their business, and in their strong relationship with all suppliers,
partners and clients. He aims to continue to steer the business in a manner
that lives up to the solid reputation they have built, by “doing good business,
building sound relationships, making a difference in the lives of those around
us and having a good time while doing so.” Cindy Mahlangu and Sandile Mahlangu
join Scandal Two Mpumalanga natives, actress Cindy Mahlangu and
film enthusiast Sandile Mahlangu, have joined Scandal. The next few weeks will see several new faces
slowly entrench their characters into the evolving world of e.tv‘s daily soapie,
and it is no coincidence that two of the latest entrants share a real-life
surname. “Scandal! viewers are in for a treat in the
next couple of months,” says Helga Palmer, e.tv head of local productions. “We have a fresh, fun, and vibrant talent
pool that is joining the eFamily. Between now and the end of September, there
will be various new faces that will effortlessly snuggle their way into fans’
hearts and simultaneously drive e.tv’s
talent value proposition. This week, we welcome Cindy and Sandile, and we are
confident that viewers will embrace their on-screen presence,” Palmer
added. SABC sends its heartfelt condolences to the Mbambo
family The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC)
has learnt with sadness of the passing of acting icon, Arthur Mbambo. “Mbambo
graced our television screens from as far back as the ’70s with a myriad of
memorable roles which he always turned into his own. His most acclaimed role
was playing Mnyamane Buthelezi, Thandaza’s father on the popular SABC 2 soapie
Muvhango. Mr Mbambo has been part of the SABC family for
decades, starring in popular dramas like Hlala Kwabafileyo, Ifa La Kwa
Mthethwa, Emzini Wezinsizwa, S’gudis Nice, Generations and Kwakhala Nyonini. Mr
Mbambo has left a big void in the entertainment industry. He will be remembered
for his immense contribution to the industry and will be sorely missed on our
screens,” it said in a statement. The SABC extends its heartfelt condolences to the
Mbambo family during this difficult time. Business moves Flow Communications embraces innovation and change
by moving to a permanent remote working arrangement Flow Communications
has joined the likes of GitHub, Twitter, Google and Facebook – announcing that
staff may choose where they want to work from, with immediate effect. The company, which has been in business for 15
years and has a staff complement of about 60 people, will no longer expect its
employees to be physically present at an office. Instead, Flow staff will work
from wherever it makes most sense. “Flow has always been innovative and flexible,” said Tara Turkington, CEO of Flow Communications. “Now, our flexibility is at another level. We’re excited to chart this path, along with our amazing team. The forced work-from-home arrangement during Covid-19 made us realise that teams who choose when and where they work create more innovative work and offer even better and more responsive client service.” For Flow Communications, remote working does not
equate to working from home – it’s a choice, not a necessity, and enables teams
to embrace opportunities that include being able to work from anywhere in the
world, reduced travel costs and eliminating the
frustration that comes from commuting to and from work, less
micromanagement and being responsible for our own working times, productivity
and office space among others. “It’s our
experience that this new way of working is not at all remote, but rather
closer, more accessible, more flexible and more agile – retaining our unique
Flow culture while offering more,” said Tiffany Turkington-Palmer, Flow’s
managing director. Good Things Guy offers free news, no walls.
Forever. South Africa’s Good
Things Guy, Brent Lindeque, has announced that readers of GoodThingsGuy.com
will always enjoy its content free of charge, in perpetuity. “That includes breaking news and ‘premium’ content
like our podcasts, in-depth articles and investigative opinions,” said
Lindeque. “We wholeheartedly believe that good news should always, and will
always, remain free for consumption.” The good news site also vowed to never allow any
intrusive and completely irrelevant pop up advertising. “We are intimately
conscious of what our readers want and engage with them directly, in a personal
way, on a daily basis,” Lindeque said. “South Africans want good news, they
want connection and they want it readily available – we offer our continued
commitment to do just that – without a paywall.” The Good Things Guy can be found at www.goodthingsguy.com, on Twitter,
Facebook or Instagram. Good Things Guy launches Good Things Live South Africa’s Good
Things Guy, Brent Lindeque, has expanded his online platform to include Good
Things Live, a live streamed show hosted on the Skyroomlive.com platform that
has already amassed over 76 000 views over just five episodes. Featuring guests the likes of The Kiffness, Riaan
Manser and Mike Sharman, Good Things Live profiles South Africans in the
business, entertainment and leisure industries providing both entertainment and
inspiration to all South Africans during lockdown and into the future. With each episode around half an hour, Good Things
Live began in June this year when Adriaan Gerber of Mushroom Productions
approached Lindeque with the idea. He said: “I met Brent a few years ago. While
producing Goliaths Go Live I approached Brent to be on as a guest with the
Goliaths. When that episode hit 7000 views, I knew we had to ask him back for a
second episode. When his second appearance also hit great numbers, I approached
him about launching a Good Things Live programme, an idea that he was
coincidentally playing with at the same time.” Sponsorship opportunities are available for brands
interested in collaborating the Good Things Live show and can be tailored per
budget. Tribeca Public Relations retains Level 1 B-BBEE
rating Tribeca Public Relations (Tribeca) has
achieved a Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) Level 1 status for
the third consecutive year, as verified in its 2020 B-BBEE audit by JS BEE
Solutions, a SANAS accredited B-BBEE verification agency. The B-BBEE verification process was based on the Marketing, Advertising and Communication (MAC) Sector
Code. The Level 1 status affords Tribeca a B-BBEE
procurement recognition level of 135%, making it an appealing option for
organisations whose own B-BBEE strategies focus on achieving high procurement
recognition levels as outlined in the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment Amendment Act of
2013. Tribeca’s commitment to empowerment includes a
partnership with the Itirele Foundation Charitable Trust (Itirele), an
independent trust which focuses on nurturing a culture of black female
entrepreneurship in South Africa. Itirele owns 18% of the issued shares of Tribeca
Public Relations (Pty) Ltd unencumbered and uses its dividend income from this
shareholding to support the growth of small and medium enterprises, develop
entrepreneurial role models, and stimulate and reward entrepreneurial
innovation. News24 announces a new digital subscription
service at R75 per month News24, South Africa’s largest and most trusted
news platform, is launching a new digital subscription service that will be
available to readers from Saturday. Breaking news will remain free-to-read. A subscription will cost R75 per month and will
give readers access to additional investigative and in-depth journalism, as
well as a range of informed opinions, analysis and views on news, politics,
sport, business and lifestyle. A subscription will further include access to
the best of Media24’s journalism from City Press, You, Drum and True Love
magazines’ digital editions. “This is a historic moment for all of us at
News24; something we’ve been dying to tell our more than 13-million unique
users about since we started this journey to build a sustainable model for
quality journalism almost two years ago,” said News24 editor-in-chief
Adriaan Basson. FNB’s new brand campaign inspires South Africans
to Help and have Hope FNB has launched its new brand campaign calling
on all South Africans to rally behind local businesses to help rebuild the
economy. FNB chief marketing officer, Faye Mfikwe said,
“Our brand campaign aims to encourage South Africans to stand behind our small
businesses as they are the lifeline of every community and the backbone of our
economy. They drive growth and create job opportunities. By supporting and
buying proudly local, we are helping to rebuild and revive our economy”. Centred around the message “When we all help, we have hope”, the brand campaign depicts the story of a paramedic who visits a local coffee shop to buy coffee for his colleagues ahead of their shift. While he is driving, he appreciates seeing how the lockdown restrictions have eased and local businesses opening, giving hope to reviving the economy. Press Room appointed by PANDORA Jewellery “We are absolutely thrilled to be working with such an
aspirational and prestigious brand like PANDORA,” saidLorraine Maisel, MD of Styling Concepts and Press Room PR agencies. PANDORA are best known for
their charms and wide range of jewellery including
hand-finished bracelets, necklaces, rings, and pendants for all occasions. Press Room and Styling Concepts have over 14 years of experience
specialising in fashion and lifestyle PR. GivenGain debuts live-stream fundraising Charities in the know use live-stream fundraising
to get tons of donations for good causes. Others are missing out. Now GivenGain
wants to bridge the gap between them. This month, the global leader in crowdfunding for
charity wants gamers, musicians and anyone with a livestream to do it for good. Why? Because livestreaming for charity is big – really
big. Streaming platform Twitch estimates that between 2012 and 2017,
more than $75m was raised for various charities on its service. Marius Maré, GivenGain President, said the
fundraising platform – itself a non-profit – has long used innovative
technologies to break down the barriers between haves and have-nots. To add fundraising to your live stream, you must be
logged in on GivenGain as a fundraiser and have at least one active fundraising
project. Then simply click through to your Settings page here, choose an active project from the
Livestreaming tab, and copy the links to our Donation Alert and Progress Bar
widgets into your live streaming platform. For detailed instructions, visit GivenGain. Making
moves DStv bolsters its movie offering Call it Movies 2.0! or: The streamlined upgrade of the M-Net Movies channels
on DStv,
come Tuesday 1 September the current six M-Net Movie channels will be reorganised
and consolidated into four slick, fuss-free channels. To keep it simple, these four carefully curated channels,
with their array of must-see films, will be known as M-Net Movies 1, M-Net Movies 2, M-Net Movies
3 and M-Net Movies 4. Even though DStv have streamlined the M-Net
channels, this will not impact the number of movies on the DStv packages,
audiences will benefit from a leaner, spruced-up M-Net slate. The popular holiday pop-up channel FliekNET will
become a permanent fixture on the platform from 1 September as well. Added to this, the new KIX channel launching in
October this year, will bring viewers the best of Martial Arts from the
old-time favourites such as Jet Li, Jackie Chan and more. Film fanatics can
also rest assured that DStv and M-Net
team will continue to create popular pop-up channels built around popular franchises
or themes. “It’s important for us to facilitate the best
possible viewing experience for our DStv customers in our ever-evolving world
of entertainment,” said MultiChoice SA CEO, Mark Rayner. “While the proposition
of the current six movie channels – M-Net Movies Premiere, Action Plus, Action,
Smile, Zone and All Stars – made perfect sense when they launched years ago,
recent comments and requests from our movie-loving DStv audiences indicated
that it was time for a reboot.” According to Yolisa Phahle, CEO of General
Entertainment and Connected Video at MultiChoice Group, this is just the
beginning – the first step onto an exciting planned journey of developments on
the film front. The South African Book Fair announces 2020 virtual
event this September The South African Book Development Council (SABDC)
has announced that the 2020 edition of the South African Book Fair (SABF) will
be going ahead as a virtual event taking place from 11-13 September 2020
at the culmination of South Africa’s National Book Week. The SABDC and the FP&M Seta are committed to
promoting the power and joy of books and reading as well as to showcase,
support, connect and provide a trading platform for the industry to ensure that
books and reading stay within people’s consciousness. In reimagining this year’s South African Book Fair,
the emphasis is on providing a highly relevant, immersive and engaging virtual
experience for readers, book lovers, authors, illustrators, poets and members
of the book and publishing industry via a newly developed SA Book Fair online
platform. This year’s virtual South African Book Fair, while
a simplified version of the annual physical Fair, will offer a full and
exciting programme of stimulating discussions, entertainment and fun to ensure
that there is something for everyone. The City of
Cape Town and HelloFCB+ launch My COVID-19 Diaries to end stigmatisation of
those infected The City of Cape Town has launched a campaign
devised by human connections agency, HelloFCB+, to build empathy for those who
have contracted COVID-19 and encourage the communities in which they live and
work to stop stigmatising them. The campaign, My COVID-19 Dairy, showcases Vuyokazi
Nqayi, a 35-year-old mother of two from Langa, Cape Town. Every day, she films
a short video in which she shares her feelings, symptoms, fears and how she
appreciates the support and kindness she is receiving from the online
community. Heart FM has also joined the campaign, doing daily interviews with
Vuyokazi. Director of communications for the City of Cape
Town, Priya Reddy, said the project was both challenging and unpredictable. “We had many a conversation with Vuyokazi to ensure she was up to it. She, like us, wants to build awareness and education around the virus and the effects of stigmatisation, reminding our residents that the COVID-19 statistics are actually human beings who deserve compassion and kindness,” Reddy said. The key insight informing the campaign is that, as
COVID-19 cases increase at a rapid rate, it’s easy to forget that behind the
numbers, statistics, and graphs, are family members, friends, colleagues and
loved ones – all of whom need care and support over this time. Re-invent, revive and thrive this
women’s month with brand performance expert, Jenny Handley JHP, a Cape Town-based brand and performance training company, is celebrating the potential of women by offering a unique personal branding package this Women’s Month. Women who are resilient, robust and can adapt to change are those who will be more successful in an uncertain future. Handley said, “It’s time to re-create, re-imagine and elevate your chances of success. You need to know where your skills will be relevant, and how to leverage your strengths. It’s not always the most qualified person who gets the job, but the one who is brave enough to market themselves appropriately.” With a two-hour, digital consultation, Handley will meet you in the comfort of your home and offer one-on-one expert guidance to a ‘brand’ new you. The consultation includes an analysis of personal assets and liabilities, identifying potential, goal setting and how to market yourself to get you there. Consultations will include a copy of Raise your Profile and the writing of a
personal profile for each candidate. For more information email info@jhpr.co.za. For the Diary Web Rangers SA 2020: Enrol your
children now at no cost! Web Rangers is an international
digital literacy programme designed to empower young people to become digital
citizens who know how to use the internet responsibly and encourage their peers
to do the same! If you work with children or know
a young person who is passionate about using the internet for good, and would
like to join hundreds of Web Rangers across the world who have learnt to use
the internet and social media to make their country a better place. Register here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.