The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa enters lockdown at midnight tonight, businesses will close across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s BIG move: PAMS2019 to deliver 20/20 vision Given the current Government lockdown, the Publisher Research
Council’s highly anticipated release of the results of the Publisher Audience
Measurement Survey 2019 (PAMS) will now be a webinar delivered via ZOOM video
conferencing on 7 April 2020 from 10h00 to 11h00. Once again the PRC is set to deliver data reflecting their
commitment to quality fieldwork, and a sample in excess of 15 000 of brand
data. The #PAMS2019 survey results reinforce the PRC’s commitment to ensuring
stability and the reliability of the methodology and gathering of data. These
are fundamentals the media sector has become accustomed to over the past five
years. First time additions such as the introduction of Household
Income in the sample frame and weighting, plus using renowned demographers GTI
to share their expertise in matching rapidly urbanising profiles, are designed
to provide users with greater depth and understanding. The PRC has gone to
great lengths to supply media planners with the data required to prepare plans
for clients on a consistent basis. The efficacy of the research is sacrosanct and renowned global
media expert, Robert Ruud says “The PAMS 2019 sample design
as developed by Professor Ariane Neethling seems to be
well adapted to the particular socio-economic landscape of the South Africa
market. The innovations adopted in terms of appointing a new demographic data
partner GTI to provide accurate population movements into metro areas, combined
with the inclusion of income sampling and weighting should result in a
well-balanced and efficient sample as in line with global best practice.” PAMS 2019 offers an interesting picture of South Africa’s
consumers and their relationship to brands across the Automotive, Banking,
Cellular, Food, Fashion and Furniture categories. “PAMS2019, is South Africa’s largest income weighted sample of over 15 000 respondents,” said Josephine Buys, CEO of the PRC. “With the latest, most representative sample and survey in South Africa that contains brand information.” People moves Craig Wilson joins Mickey Llew to launch Cape
Town branch Performance marketing and SEO agency, Mickey Llew has
launched a Cape Town office in Muizenberg and marks the
expansion with the appointment of Craig
Wilson as organic search lead. “Opening the Mickey Llew office in Muizenberg is
a huge celebration for us, as the agency bucks the trend and continues to
thrive and grow in a climate when many start-ups struggle to build and maintain
momentum,” said David Jenkins, co-founder of Mickey Llew.
“Having Craig locally based in Cape Town expands our ability to offer the
excellent, hands-on service that our clients have come to expect from us, to a
larger client base.” Wilson has been in the international digital
industry for more than 18 years, having worked as head of digital, head of
search, and head of natural search at several renowned agencies including Mirum
Agency/Wunderman Thompson, Creative Confusion, I Spy Search Marketing (since
acquired by Dentsu Aegis Network – London), and Weboptimiser Ltd (London). Business moves ABC to exclude certain days for reporting circulation data The ABC
circulation data, for the period January to March 2020, will be due for
submission from 1
April 2020 and close 30 April 2020. Due to the
impact of COVID-19 on the Media Industry, the ABC Board has resolved that the
Publisher, at their sole discretion, may exclude the following days: 18 to 31 March 2020 The future
impact of Covid-19 on the next report period, April to June 2020, will be
evaluated by the ABC Board, and communicated accordingly. Notice from Jaco Koekemoer, MD of Caxton Local
Media and Commercial Printing Caxton Printers is the largest printer of
newspapers across the country and a major publisher of newspapers. The
newspaper industry remains a fundamental communication tool to support
government by disseminating factual information. It offers continuous support
to the media industry and the citizens of South Africa. Caxton will work closely with mainstream publishers
to ensure that printing operations continue as normal. To remain safe within this Covid-19 environment it
will cease printing and inserting commercial leaflets into all publications
printed at our facilities. Only the main bodies of newspapers will be printed.
This means that publications will rely heavily on advertisers to support them
with ROP (run-of-paper) advertising to be viable for printing. Koekemoer appealed to advertisers to support
newspapers in order for them to provide mediums where factual information can
be shared with the citizens of South Africa. It still remains one of the most
effective and trusted advertising platforms to reach all levels of society. With commercial printing plants closing for the
duration of the shutdown, Caxton will also not have trucks traveling across the
country. The impact is that 70% of its workforce will be in lockdown, with the
remaining 30% consisting of plate setters, qualified printers, stacker
operators and a few truck loaders, doing the work. To comply with transport regulations in these
times, Caxton has organised transport for staff and most of the staff who are
working, have vehicles. The largest portion of current factory staff, which
consists of receiving, dispatching and inserting staff, work in the mailrooms.
This section will be shut down. The company has secured enough raw materials to
accommodate print for all printing to continue for 30 days and beyond. The newspaper factories that will be printing and supporting newspaper
publishers are: Caxton Local Media newspapers and online platforms Caxton publishes more than three million newspapers
across the country every week, with the bulk of its distribution being
door-to-door. During the lock-down period, the majority of readers
will be at home. Readers can source hyper-local content from these
publications. Caxton Local Media newsrooms have over 300 editorial staff
members working under the guidance of national group editor, Irma Green. A task team was set up to focus on Covid-19 content
and the impact of the virus on local communities. In many of these areas,
Caxton publications are often the only way hyper-local information is
communicated to our readers there. It enforces the importance of continuous
publishing to assist government and business to share information on how to
stay safe during the lock-down period. The fundamental role of sharing information and
educating communities has never before been so important. Local clients can still contact their local sales
representatives, while national clients should work through Spark Media. All distribution staff have been briefed with
regards to safety procedures. Thrive with ‘DrD’: Dorianne
Weil launches new podcast on JacPod Internationally renowned development and relationship expert ‘DrD’-Dorianne Weil, is bringing her expertise to a new podcast series. Thrive with ‘DrD’ officially launches on Jacaranda FM’s podcast hub, JacPod, today, 26 March 2020. Weil, who famously served as an expert psychologist
during the Oscar Pistorius trial, has interviewed the likes of Mother Theresa,
Bishop Desmond Tutu, and the Dalai Lama. She hopes her new podcast will inspire people to live their lives with understanding and intention. “If you want expert advice and shared experiences around personal challenges, family dynamics, conflict resolution, communication, dealing with adversity, parenting, conquering fear and anxiety, overcoming trauma, being your best in the workplace, self-esteem and enhancing your relationship – in fact a spectrum of issues that will resonate with you, you cannot miss Thrive with ‘DrD’,” Weil said. CWDi introduces an innovative virtual events solution As businesses and event organisers have had to cancel events amid what is currently happening globally, CWDi has quickly adapted to the challenge, and to ensure valuable connections are still possible, the team has launched a virtual events solution. “Technology
has become such an essential tool to our everyday lives that it is hard to
imagine life before it. Events have been using technology to enhance the
experience but now is the time to make it the cornerstone of the experience,”
said Samantha Gabriel, group experiences director. “The key is to master the engagement of audiences
and to still retain the humanness of it all. Content is king, beautifully
designed presentations are essential and the chat functionality and
facilitation will be the what take the experience from good to great. “A virtual event is a
multi-session online event allowing people to interact in a virtual environment
– allowing connection of audiences from next door to across the globe. The
solution being offered means corporate conferences can still go ahead,
activations can be moved online, launches and more can go on. “We are thinking ahead
and believe that virtual events will become an essential part of corporate
marketing strategies as they not only offer flexibility and convenience but
also highly interactive.” Ailing events industry urges corporates for
assistance during Covid-19 The South African event
industry is reeling and unsure of its future as a result of the Covid-19
pandemic. While the marketing industry has a significant challenge on their
hands, a small group of local entrepreneurs are pulling together to provide a
solution. “Our local event industry is made up of bright
minded entrepreneurs and passionate service providers who, almost without
exception, are small businesses,” said Andrew Ross, managing director of Chaos
Theory. “As strategic event providers we have consulted with some of our key
service suppliers directly impacted by the cancellation of our own event
pipeline, and have found what we believe to be a solution relevant for the
marketing industry right now.” It is initiating a live-streamed panel discussion
on the 31March, staged and streamed for free by professionals in
the event industry in exchange for a revenue split of money made by
subscriptions to the stream. Titled Going Viral, Marketing in a Pandemic, this online discussion, moderated by radio personality and top financial journalist Bruce Whitfield, will afford the broader marketing community online access to a think-tank of several industry experts on the way marketers could rethink strategies in this evolving crisis. Several high profile names have already thrown
their hats into the ring including Mike Sharman, Owner at Retroviral; Musa
Kalenga, Chief Future Officer of Brave Group; Neo Makhele, Chief Strategy
Officer of Ogilvy SA and Mike Middleton, Managing Director at WPP Liquid. Tickets will be available through Quicket at www.quicket.co.za or email Andrew@chaostheory.co.za for more
information. BrandQuantum adds BrandInsight Stock Market
Graphing feature BrandQuantum has launched a BrandInsight Stock
Market Graphing feature which is built into the BrandOffice software solution.
This latest offering empowers BrandOffice users to pull on-brand, real-time
stock market information into Microsoft Office programmes, helping to save
company’s time and cut costs while creating consistently branded graphs that
align to the corporate identity. According to Paula Sartini, founder and CEO at
BrandQuantum, “Financial services organisations often rely on external stock
market feeds, which traditionally charge in foreign currency, to gather and
present relevant data to their clients. For companies wanting to reinforce
their brand in every customer interaction, they invest time and money into
additional resources to modify the data from these feeds to align to the
corporate brand identity for client presentations and reports.” Think Tank partners with Fortinet to fill the
cybersecurity skill gap in South Africa Fortinet, a
global leader in broad, integrated and automated cybersecurity solutions, has
announced its first Fortinet Network Security Academy (FNSA) in South Africa,
with Think Tank, a private higher learning
organisation providing Information Technology (IT) solutions, training,
recruitment and professional services. This unique program aimed to provide
industry-recognized training and certification in cybersecurity in order to
better prepare youth people for a career. With this programme, Think Tank has already
placed 73 unemployed youths in relevant IT positions out of 75. In addition,
Think Thank also helped in implementing the FNSA program within an ICT Academy
in Braam Park, Johannesburg thanks to its partnership with NGO Afrika Tikkun,
an organisation providing education, health and social services to young people
and their families through centres of excellence in South African townships. “As a growing number of companies finds that
Fortinet uniquely meets local security needs, we see increasing demand for
certified Fortinet specialists. We strategically aligned with Fortinet across
solutions, consulting and training, and this has proved to be a good decision,”
said Think Tank MD Tebogo Moleta. Making
moves SANEF directive on emergency media cards for lockdown identification The
South African National Editors’ Forum has advised all members of the media and
their respective media houses and organisations to organise media cards. The
Government Communication and Information System (GCIS) and the South African
Police Services (SAPS) have said if you are stopped by security personnel, who
will be enforcing the lockdown, you will need to show media cards. This will
include support services. SANEF
encourages media houses to go to the Publishers Support Services (PSS) via the
Press Council to organise their cards within the next 48 hours. Please
send the forms to Lionel Jeffries at lionel@pdmedia.org.za or to Penelope at
penelope@pdmedia.org.za. Journalists
wanting press cards must send the application form with a photo. Applicants for
the press card will be invoiced later and therefore can send the application
forms without funds for now. Cards can be collected from the Press Council. Applicants
and or media houses who are outside Johannesburg and or outside the Gauteng
province must sort their own courier. All applicants must make their own
arrangements to collect their press cards at the following address: Press
Council First
Floor, Building 8 Burnside
Office Park 410
Jan Smuts Avenue Craighall
Park. DA launches dedicated
Covid-19 info channel The Democratic Alliance has auncheda dedicated coronavirus information channel which will broadcast live on the party’s Facebook and Twitter pages twice a week on Tuesdays and Fridays at 14:00. The DA said it believed that South
Africans have a real and urgent need for regular, reliable and consistent
updates and information on the pandemic. The party will be collaborating with
and hosting industry experts, its Shadow Cabinet and public health
professionals on the channel to provide up-to-date information on the
state of the Coronavirus outbreak in South Africa. It has also launched a dedicated
e-mail hotline to which any citizens and residents can submit questions,
concerns or suggestions for which we will provide verified answers and
necessary feedback. DA Corona
Cast can be contacted via the following channels: Email: coronavirus@da.org.za Webpage: da.org.za/defeatingcoronavirus Facebook: facebook.com/DemocraticAlliance Twitter: twitter.com/Our_DA Brand South Africa urges citizens around
the world to play their part Acting chief executive of Brand South
Africa, Thulisile Manzini, has urged South African citizens throughout the
world to play their part in curbing the Covid-19 pandemic. “For more than a decade, we have embarked
on a campaign that we named Play Your Part, which is a nation-wide programme
created to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship in South Africa.
It aims to lift the spirit of our nation by inspiring all South Africans to
contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing. A nation of
people who care deeply for one another and the environment in which they live
is good for everyone,” said Manzini. “We firmly believe that every citizen can
play their part by taking preventive measures such as social distancing. Our
President has stressed that those countries that have acted swiftly and
dramatically have been far more effective in controlling the spread of the
disease,” Manzini said in quoting the President. The nation-wide lockdown will
be effective for 21 days from midnight on Thursday 26 March 2020 and as Brand
South Africa we encourage every citizen to support this decision and play their
part.” For the Diary Heavy Chef takes entrepreneur series online Heavy Chef’s response to
the coronavirus lockdown is simple. It will be livestreaming all classes and
events, starting with The Futurists on 31 March, where Bronwyn Williams, Dion
Chang and Musa Kalenga
will provide their
perspective on how Covid-19 is changing the world. It has created a live studio at CEO Fred Roed’s house (follow on Instagram, to see how they set it up), and
lined up Zoom interviews with Heavy Chefs on financial management, mental
health, general health, remote working, government stimulus, cloud tools and
loads more. This is going to be messy, but hey, it may also be fun. Please email tickets@heavychef.com for more. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.