The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Coronavirus fact-checks for journalists in one place The
global spread of the Covid-19 disease has led to unprecedented measures around
the world. But spreading almost as fast has been misinformation. As the world battles to bring novel coronavirus infections under control, more and more people are seeking information around the virus. The World Health Organization says that the outbreak has been accompanied by an ‘infodemic‘, “an over-abundance of information – some accurate and some not – that makes it hard for people to find trustworthy sources and reliable guidance when they need it”. Africa
Check has been busy fact-checking viral WhatsApp messages, Facebook posts,
tweets and news articles in recent weeks. We will continue to do so as long as
there is a need for accurate information during this difficult time. It has grouped fact-checks into six broad categories, which are alphabetically sorted. AfricaCheck will be adding more categories – and checks – as researchers encounter them. They
include: People moves Ron Derby is the new editor of Fin24 Experienced usiness editor and financial journalist Ron Derby has been
appointed as the new editor of Fin24. He will join the company on 1 April. Derby is a former editor of Business Times and deputy editor of Financial Mail. He started his career in financial journalism at Moneyweb in 2003 before moving to Business Day, Bloomberg and the Financial Times in London. “Being a media business that has by and large already made the leap to the digital age, it provides an amazing platform for innovation for just how we go about bringing depth to economic, political and corporate news. Most importantly, it’s going to be fun, filled with lots of learning for all involved,” Derby told Fin24. WASPA welcomes Doris Mogotsi South Africa’s Wireless Application Service Providers’ Association (WASPA) has welcomed a new board member in the form of telecoms industry veteran Doris Mogotsi. Elected at the March Annual General Meeting (AGM) of SA’s non-profit mobile content and applications industry representative body, Mogotsi will head up WASPA’s Membership Portfolio for 2020/2021. As South Africa’s mobile industry begins a new customer-centric phase anchored on affordable access to mobile data, Mogotsi’s 360 degree mobile industry experience will prove invaluable to the WASPA Board. From humble beginnings in an MNO (mobile network operator) call centre at the very dawn of cellular in South Africa, Mogotsi transitioned to the WASPA (Wireless Application Service Provider) environment where she helped develop new value-added services and ultimately managed relationships with key WASPs. Business moves Cape Town’s
Intrepid Fox creates brand film for US online social sports platform Cape Town-based creative agency, Intrepid Fox, has
created a new brand film for SportsHosts, an online platform operating
in New York and San Francisco that connects sports fans and travellers, and
facilitating their getting together to watch live sports events. The brand film, which was launched in the United
States to influencers, players and fans on social and sports platforms by
another South African agency, HaveYouHeard, documents the story of a father and
daughter who have polarising views on just about every major issue currently
defining American politics. But, as the story unfolds, we learn that some
things are more important than ideological differences; like their love of
basketball and the weekly ritual of going to games together. Shot in Brooklyn
and Queens in New York City, the film is peppered with references to the sport,
both in his house and her car – a basketball, a coffee mug, a cap and her
keychain. South Africa’s Grindstone Accelerator announces
investment from the SA SME Fund and a partnership with Google for Startups South Africa’s Grindstone Accelerator has received a R25 million investment from the SA SME Fund and concluded partnership agreements with Google for Startups and Deloitte to extend its reach. Grindstone will greatly increase activities by doubling intake numbers, digitising learning content and running annual programmes in both Cape Town and Johannesburg to add six cohorts of ten scale-up companies each over the next three years. To
manage the programmes and partnerships, Grindstone appointed a new programme
director. Will Green. Green is an emerging market entrepreneur and advisor brings
over 19 years of business experience, networks and first-hand entrepreneurial
knowledge to Grindstone and companies in the cohorts. Green has worked with
many start-ups, scale-ups and corporates across different industries within
South Africa and abroad. “I
was fortunate to take part in the inaugural Grindstone programme and have been
involved as an active alumni and mentor over the past four years. I’m extremely
excited to be joining the Grindstone team and work with some of the region’s
brightest people to advance the local entrepreneurial ecosystem. With the
support of our value-adding partners, it is time to further accelerate the
finding, making and growing of innovative South African scale-up
companies. I would love to help discover and capitalise the next Discovery
Health, Nando’s or Capitec,” said Green. Grindstone is a structured entrepreneurship development programme,
jointly owned by leading venture capital firm Knife Capital and African
ecosystem player Thinkroom Consulting PHD and Omnicom Media Group capture Diageo global media account Omnicom Media Group has won Diageo’s
global media planning and buying account in virtually all of its key markets
around the world, Campaign reported. Dentsu Aegis Network’s Carat was the
main incumbent, which faced off Publicis Media and OMG in the final stage. Interpublic’s
IPG Mediabrands and WPP’s Group M were both involved at an earlier stage in the
process, which began in September 2019. Isabel Massey, global media director
at Diageo, told Campaign it had been “a closely contested review”.
She said OMG will be the media agency of record and PHD the strategic media
lead”. Cell C Awarded Level 2 B-BBEEE status Cell C has been awarded Level 2 B-BBEE status,
which markedly increases the company’s scope for growth in the South African
economy. This is a significant step up from Level 3 B-BBEE status, which Cell C was
awarded last year. The company has staunchly maintained its scoring
in the enterprise and supplier development, socio-economic development, and
skills development categories, while improving in management control. Cell C continues to identify and support
incorporating SMEs and emerging enterprises into its overall value chain. In
2019 the company launched the Innovation Challenge, aimed at partnering with
SMEs working on innovative ideas giving them financial support, mentorship and the
chance to work with Cell C as a supplier. It also supports the Youth
Employment Service (YES) initiative, a joint effort between
government and the private sector with the aim of providing skills training and
employment for local youth. Agency Actionclub available in webinar
format The newly formed collaboration between Independent Agency
Search and Selection (IAS) and ActionCoach Brehndan Botha is now available to
participating agencies as a webinar. The move comes amid growing calls for
social distancing considering the COVID-19/coronavirus pandemic. “It’s the responsible step to take,” said IAS Founder and
CEO Johanna McDowell. “Limited social contact is one of the ways to curb the
spread of COVID-19, but it needn’t curb the growth potential of advertising, PR
and digital agencies.” Botha, who facilitates the programme, said the material is
presentable in an online seminar format. “We have the capability to run the
programme via Zoom, Webinar or Microsoft Teams,” he said. All delegates
will exit the programme with a custom-built 90-day action plan to ensure their
learning is embedded into the agency and focused on delivering results. To enrol in the programme, agencies can reach out to
Brehndan Botha at brehndanbotha@actioncoach.com
to book their place in the next available cohort. Jacaranda fFM & Tracker’s Off the Beat ‘n Track
postponed With the South African government declaring
COVID-19 a national disaster, Jacaranda FM and Tracker have moved to postpone
Off the Beat ‘n Track 2020 – Gauteng’s favourite family fun day of mountain
biking and music – until further notice. According to Jacaranda FM’s marketing manager,
Leith Smith, and head of marketing at Tracker, Charlette Roetz: “COVID-19 poses
a significant health risk to all South Africans and it’ll take a proactive,
collective effort to prevent the spread of this disease and further loss of
life. The health and safety of those in attendance are always paramount at any
of our events and, following the announcement that gatherings of more than 100
people will be prohibited within South African borders, the event has been
postponed until further notice.” Jacaranda FM & Tracker encourage those who have already bought tickets to hold on to their tickets until a new date for the event has been set. Those who wish to request a refund can contact the race office at info@advendurance.com or (012) 012 5205. Decorex Cape Town Postponed Due to COVID-19 Reed Exhibitions
confirmed that Decorex Cape Town, originally planned for 30 April – 3 May
2020, will not be taking place this year. New dates have been confirmed for
2021 and the show will run from 16 -20 June 2021 at the Cape Town International
Convention Centre (CTICC). The decision is a result of multiple discussions
with the greater industry as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 escalation
and upon the advice of local and national health authorities. SAMRO appeals to financial institutions &
landlords to save local artists amid Covid19 onslaught South Africa’s response to the detection of the coronavirus
in the country, as announced by President Ramaphosa, is expected to have a
substantial and long-lasting effect on several industries, in particular those
that derive their income from hosting and preforming at events. “SAMRO appreciates and welcomes the President’s
swift action to contain the spread of the Corona Virus, we are gravely concerned
about what this ban on large gatherings will mean for our members’ financial
well-being,” said Nicholas Maweni, chairperson of SAMRO. SAMRO is responsible for collecting royalty fees
and distributing them to more than 16 000 authors, composers and publishers who
rely to some degree, on royalties for their livelihoods. The majority of SAMRO members have two major
income streams including royalties collected by SAMRO, which are distributed
periodically as well as income from performing at events. The royalties paid by
broadcasters to SAMRO on behalf of members, represent considerable sums.
However, the average SAMRO member relies on income from events in-between
royalty distributions. “Many will instinctively turn to SAMRO for
financial bail outs. The financial pressure this will have on SAMRO is one that
we are unable to bear,” said Maweni. WWE® to hold first-ever talent
tryout in South Africa WWE has announced that it will visit South
Africa in search of the next generation of WWE Superstars by holding the
first-ever talent tryout in Johannesburg in May 2020 during the WWE Live tour of Johannesburg, Durban and Cape
Town from 29 April to 2 May. The two-day tryout will give male and female
athletes from South Africa the opportunity to showcase their abilities with the
goal being selected to begin training at the state-of-the-art WWE Performance
Center in Orlando, Florida, U.S. “South Africa is renowned for producing tough,
uncompromising athletes proven by the hugely dominant performance of the
Springboks rugby team last year to become world champions,” said Paul ‘Triple
H’ Levesque, WWE executive vice president, Global Talent Strategy &
Development. “I want to bring those same dynamic, powerful and entertaining
qualities from South Africa’s best male and female athletes to WWE. My message
to every athlete and performer in South Africa is simple: this is your chance
to change your life. Take this opportunity to follow your dream and represent
South Africa on the global stage as a WWE Superstar.” The official WWE recruitment website at www.wweperformancecenter.com is open for
applications. Believe
Advertising & PR set to make headlines with latest service offering International advertising and public relations
agency, Believe Advertising & PR, has unveiled its latest service offering,
providing press release distribution services to companies, ultimately acting
as a news wire service for media outlets. The agency is now able to get companies’ news
releases into the hands of key, influential journalists across the globe. “Whether it’s a new innovative product launch,
the latest piece of research you have completed, financial results or the
hottest celebrity that is now using your product, you can now let the media
know about it and the world,” said founder, Adrian Falk. Making
moves Discovery launches social responsibility
initiative supporting Save The Children South Africa Discovery Inc has launched an initiative called
RISE (Reducing Inequality and Supporting Empowerment). It is partnering with
Save the Children South Africa (SCSA), an entity established in 2013 to fight
for children’s rights. RISE
is a global initiative focused on reducing inequality and supporting
empowerment —around the world — by working with local and global organisations
focused on addressing social mobility through access to the most basic human
needs. In South Africa the Discovery RISE initiative will
support the SCSA’s Children on the Move project. This project, which has been
running since 2016, supports authorities in identifying and correctly handling
unaccompanied or undocumented minors at borders; it helps minors gain access to
critical and basic support (school, health, protection); and provides skills
development and psycho-social support. “Through our partnership with Save the Children
South Africa and support of their Children on the Move project, we hope to
demonstrate our commitment to improving children’s lives through access to
basic human needs and in so doing make a lasting impact in the communities
where we live and work,” said Henry Windridge, Discovery Networks head of brand
for Middle East & Africa. #MoreThanADay returns for Cell C’s 18th
Take a Girl Child to Work Day Cell C has put the call out to government
departments and corporations to take part in its Cell C Take a Girl Child to
Work Day® initiative for 2020. Registration is now open and companies across
the country can now sign up to host girl learners aged 13-18 in their workplace
over three days this year, starting on 28 May. Now in its 18th year, Cell C Take a Girl Child to
Work Day® is one of South Africa’s largest collaborative acts of volunteerism,
aimed at encouraging corporates in South Africa to empower and provide guidance
to girls on career development. If you want to get on board, you can register for
the 2019 Cell C Take a Girl Child to Work via www.cellcgirlchild.co.za.
Follow the conversation by using #GirlChild2020 and #MoreThanADay. World
Out of Home Organisation: Toronto 2020 Congress is cancelled, re-scheduled for
June 2021 The
World Out of Home Organisation announces with regret that its planned Toronto
Congress from 3-5 June is cancelled due to the spread of the COVID-19 virus and
consequent travel restrictions. The
Congress is being rescheduled for Toronto in June 2021. Attendees who have
booked already and other partners should contact Mark Flys on mark@worldooh.org for further details. Organization
President Tom Goddard said, “COVID-19 is now officially designated a pandemic
by the World Health Organisation and is impacting Out of Home companies
worldwide. Therefore we had no option but to cancel our June gathering and
postpone to 2021. We felt it best to make the decision at this time to
remove uncertainty for attendees and our partners.” It
is the first Congress cancelled in 61 years. Children’s Radio Foundation response to COVID-19 Over the past few months, the Children’s Radio
Foundation has watched with concern as the unprecedented events of the COVID-19
pandemic unfolded. In line with its mission and values, the Children’s Radio
Foundation has taken action to mobilise radio to respond to the pandemic while
keeping its youth reporters, colleagues, and partners safe. Staff in Cape Town is working remotely until
further notice, and all ongoing programme activities in South Africa, Zambia,
Tanzania, Ivory Coast, and the Democratic Republic of Congo have been
suspended. It is re-directing youth radio networks to address the specific
needs of communities by providing critical and up-to-date information on
COVID-19 to radio audiences. In partnership with the World Health
Organization, UNICEF, and other public health organizations, it responding to
COVID-19 across Africa by working with leading health journalists to produce
and distributing COVID-19 fact sheets and radio production guides to 72 radio
stations partners across Africa. It will update and distribute these resources
weekly as information on the pandemic evolves. In addition to providing
fact-based information on the virus, these materials will direct listeners to
health-care services in their communities. We will translate them into French
and Swahili and make them freely available to radio stations and civil society
organizations across Africa. Epic sport documentaries get prime billing on
SuperSport SuperSport has a treat for fans of storytelling
and sports mystique. The World of Champions has acquired the award
winning ‘30 for 30’ series, which SuperSport 1 has rolled out since Monday.
There will be multiple broadcasts of each documentary. This precedes a major programming announcement
to follow in the next 24 hours. Produced by US sport broadcaster ESPN, ‘30 for
30’ is a popular series of documentaries that delves into the lives and events
that shaped so much recent sporting history. The series touches on a variety of
people and subjects with fresh insights and perspectives lending the films a
grand quality. Among the dozen offerings are “Of Miracles and
Men”, “Chasing Tyson”, “Slaying the Badger”, “Nature Boy” and “This is What
They Want”. The titles will also be available on DStv’s
Catch up service. For the Diary SAFTAs14 Update In light of the announcement made by President
Ramaphosa and the Government’s strict actions in response to the COVID19
(“Coronavirus”) outbreak, the National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF) would
like to inform you that the 14th Annual South African Film and Television
Awards (SAFTAs14) will no longer take place at the Sandton Convention Centre on
27 – 28 March 2020. Further details will be communicated in due course. Join us online for Podmeet! Jamfest has been canceled in light of
the ban of large gatherings and this affects Podmeet
Joburg. Thankfully that doesn’t stop Podmeet from chatting about podcasting
online, where podcasters feel right at home already. The organisation is planning a virtual
meeting with different speakers and will share the details as soon. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.