The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s
BIG move: Steve Harvey the keynote
speaker at inaugural Advertising Week Africa Advertising Week has announced TV personality and
comedian Steve Harvey will be the keynote speaker at the
inaugural Advertising Week Africa in Johannesburg in May. Harvey will take
the main stage in South Africa alongside Laugh Out Loud President Jeff
Clanagan. Steve Harvey Global is also bringing Family Feud to Africa. “We can’t wait to welcome Kevin Hart and
Steve Harvey, two of the biggest comedy superstars on the planet, to the
Advertising Week stages,” said AW Global CEO Matt Scheckner in a
statement. Advertising Week has teamed up with Laugh Out
Loud, the entertainment company founded by comedian Kevin Hart, to create a
global partnership that will include a new b-to-b podcast, the launch of a
LOL-branded content studio and more. “Comedy has always been on our front burner.
We’re excited to partner with LOL on this global alliance in 2020 to expand our
comedy footprint and extend what we are doing to advance the ball on diversity
and inclusion from top to bottom across our industry,” said Scheckner. As part of the multi-year collaboration, which
will expand LOL’s Comedy in Colour standup and content program to markets
outside of North America, Hart will serve as the keynote speaker for
Advertising Week New York this October. The alliance also will put LOL talent
on Advertising Week stages around the world, with the partnership extending to
London and Sydney this year. People moves Gerald Naidoo appointed Technologiks CEO Technologiks, a specialist service provider
offering solutions ranging from digital identity and analytics, to Artificial
Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT), has announced the appointment
of Gerald Naidoo as CEO. An experienced chief executive with 25 years’
experience, Naidoo will be responsible for growing the business locally, and
across the continent. Having held top management positions at
international leaders such as Unisys, CSC and HP, Naidoo holds a number of
qualifications, including an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business
Executive Education. With an extensive history of successful
pan-African technology initiatives, Naidoo said he was looking forward to
growing the Technologiks brand. Charlene Ludick appointed regional GM at Peermont
Global Botswana Peermont Hotels, Casinos and Resorts has appointed
of Charlene Ludick to the position of regional general manager of Peermont
Global Botswana. In her new role, Ludick will be responsible for providing
leadership management and strategic guidance in all facets of the business. She
will focus on Peermont’s Botswanan based properties and casinos, including The
Grand Palm Hotel, Casino and Convention Resort, a gem of the African continent. Business moves PRC opens up access to the SEMs to allow planners
‘under the hood’ The Publisher Research Council (PRC) and
Broadcast Research Council (BRC) have opened up access to their Socio Economic
Measure (SEM) to allow media planners to give clients a stable picture of a
household’s status. Until now, planners haven’t been able to access
the actual scorecard or calculators needed to “get under the hood and really
understand the SEM’s workings”, says Peter Langschmidt, lead consultant to the
PRC. Prior to this, the PRC would deliver a
presentation, remove the score sheet and slide, then send users a 19-page
contract to sign first. The unwieldy process could take weeks to finalise, thus
leading to a loss of momentum. “This is a great step forward in ensuring the
take-up and ease of use of the SEM,” says the PRC’s CEO, Josephine Buys. Because the score sheet is no longer secret, and
the SEM open source, the PRC has already added tools such as the SEM
calculator to its website. It indicates how South Africans live
based on what they have access to in and near their homes. The addition of
tools such as this form part of a more extensive plan to educate and share
learnings with users. The Broadcast Research Council of South Africa
now hosts a dropdown menu featuring a downloadable SEM
user guide, while the PRC itself has created a series of infographics to enable
further understanding of the SEM. SEM provides marketers with a balanced and real
targeting tool when it comes to income, lifestyle, race, geography and much
more. Ensuring increased access will allow marketers to re-orientate and reboot
their thinking around South Africa’s population. Purchase journey approach wins Wavemaker a portfolio of new
clients Wavemaker
celebrated a series of successes in 2019, winning big brands such as TymeBank,
Edcon, Puma Energy and Huawei across multiple markets. The agency is a next generation marketing
services agency formed in 2018 by WPP and GroupM, two agencies with a depth of
experience in years and work within various sectors, with the sole purpose of
offering clients’ expertise in media, content and technology. ‘‘In a business
environment where terms such as ‘big data’ are used interchangeably within the
creative industry especially, it is necessary to understand that Wavemaker
recognises that the market in which it operates in, clients need an agency that
understands how connected media, content and technology can work together to
create transformational business results. We are obsessed with the customer’s
purchase journey and this is what connects our mission directly to our client’s
business challenges,” said Lwandile Qokweni, CEO SSA HUB. Out with the old and in
with the blue: Apple Premium Reseller Digicape’s striking rebrand Digicape, one of only two
Apple Premium Resellers in South Africa, has just launched its rebrand,
sporting a fresh look and feel that reflects the brand’s journey over the past
18 years. The rebrand follows
Digicape’s recent change in leadership; in 2018, MD Robin Olivier relocated to
New Zealand and was succeeded by co-founder and former sales director Gaynor
MacArthur, who took over the reins as head of the Apple Premium Reseller and
total solutions provider. The rebrand includes a new
CI and logo, foregoing its signature green in favour of a sleek, contemporary
sky blue. Said MacArthur, “The process began with reassessing our company
values to ascertain whether they were still relevant. We realised that our
core values remained unchanged; however, our company culture felt
internally-led. Our goal was to clearly define and project our values
externally, so that they would resonate not only with our staff, but also our
customers.” Facebook’s Community Accelerator programme opens
applications to South African community leaders In line with its mission to give people the power
to build community around the world and its commitment to supporting the
community leaders who drive change, Facebook has announced the Community
Accelerator programme for South Africa. The six-month accelerator programme provides
training, mentorship and funding to help community leaders grow their
communities. Up to $3 million in total will be awarded to up to 80 programme
participants worldwide. Selected community leaders will spend three
months learning from experts, coaches and a customised curriculum to create a
plan to grow their communities. They will spend the next three months iterating
and executing on their plans, with funding and support from their networks. “We are deeply committed to investing in and
empowering leaders to start, grow and sustain meaningful communities that
positively impact people’s lives,” said Nunu Ntshingila, regional director Facebook
Africa. “That’s why we are not only investing in creating
new tools for community leaders on our platforms, but also in connecting with
them, learning from them, and using our resources to open new opportunities for
their communities.” The Community Accelerator programme is one of the
many investments Facebook is making in community leaders. The Facebook Community Learning Labs brings Group
admins with similar goals together into a collaborative digital classroom for
structured learning, a dedicated Facebook team with experience helps group
admins achieve their goals. SAFCOIN
launches Africa’s first blockchain-powered freelance jobs marketplace SAFCOIN, an African cryptocurrency, has launched
Africa’s first blockchain-powered micro jobs platform, aimed at connecting
businesses and gig economy workers across Africa, for free. MobiJobs.Africa lets start-ups and small to
medium-sized businesses list jobs, search freelancer profiles, and establish an
online presence without set-up, hosting, or development costs. It also lets
freelancers market their skills, build their experience, and ‘buy’ listed jobs,
even if they don’t have a bank account. There are no joining, account, or
transaction fees, and jobs are paid for in SAFCOIN cryptocurrency. “Our goal with MobiJobs is to help individuals in
Africa to take their skills and talents global, and to empower small businesses
to tap into a global skills pool, as and when they need to,” said Neil
Ferreira, CEO of SAFCOIN. “Through the platform, users can gain experience,
build their internship hours while studying, ask for testimonials from
businesses they’ve completed tasks for, and build relationships with companies
across Africa. All this via a free cryptocurrency payment gateway that ensures
they get paid quickly and securely, with zero transaction charges.” Technology is enabling the growth of the
freelance, or ‘gig’ economy, with more people taking on short-term, flexible
tasks to make money. In South Africa, 3.9 million people were in temporary
employment in 2018, up from 2.6 million in 2017. In Africa, nearly 86% of
employment is informal. Through the MobiJobs Workdesk, freelancers can
manage their jobs, advertise their skills, communicate with clients, and rate
their experience. M-Net Movies presents a pop-up channel with
Hollywood’s ‘top gun’ Tom Cruise! M-Net’s second pop-up channel for the year, M-Net Movies
Presents Tom Cruise, is taking over channel 109 from 20 March 2020. As a
special celebration to a magnificent cinematic career that has spanned four
decades, DStv Premium audiences can enjoy almost every Tom Cruise film ever
made – with 38 movies featuring the Golden Globe winning mega star as a leading
man or supporting actor. The earliest film in this Tom Cruise movie
anthology curated by M-Net Movies is Taps from 1981 and the freshest
addition is 2018’s Mission: Impossible
– Fallout. The M-Net
Movies Presents Tom Cruise Pop-Up Channel will start at 12:00 noon on
weekends and will close around midnight. During the week, however, the Cruise
films will be scheduled between 14:00 and midnight. With a variety of films on
the channel, viewers can look forward to seeing the different types of Tom
Cruise: Sporty Tom, Action Tom, Serious Tom, Sci-fi/Fantasy Tom and Sexy Tom. Making
moves SANEF alert to members and the media
industry on coronavirus The South
African National Editors Forum (SANEF) held a productive teleconference on
Tuesday with the GCIS and department of health on reporting on the coronavirus.
SANEF said it was committed to assisting government to communicate information
pertaining to the spread and containment of the virus. Post the
meeting, SANEF would like to clarify its role in terms of what it will be
assisting with – but also what its role does not include. To start
with the latter – SANEF will not be distributing news alerts. This will remain
a GCIS and Department of Health function. However,
where it will assist in: SANEF
believes that the media can play a critical role in the prevention of the
spread of this disease. Business Day Focus 4.0 conference and exhibition
– it’s a wrap for 2020! The inaugural Business Day Focus 4.0 delivered valuable insights on what the
Fourth Industrial Revolution would mean for South Africa and the 1.2 billion people living on
the African continent. Presented on behalf of Business Day by Arena Events – a division of Arena
Holdings, and Cold Press Media,
the conference gave delegates an opportunity to engage on 4IR technologies
through panel discussions and presentations from South Africa’s leading minds,
as well as experiential activations at the exhibition. Taryn Westoby, head of Arena Events,
said the support Business Day Focus
4.0 received meant that a larger venue to accommodate delegates and
exhibitors had to be arranged as soon as the event was publicised in September
2019. “The credibility of the Business Day title ensured that the
highest calibre speakers were drawn to participate, which attracted partners
and exhibitors who would reach a captive, highly-engaged audience of
delegates.  We were overwhelmed by how well the 4IR programme was
received, but also privileged to bring the industry an event with quality
content that is in such high demand by business leaders in SA,” said Westoby. Nompilo Morafo, group executive for
corporate affairs at MTN – the headline partner for the event – said: “MTN is
proud to have supported the Business
Day Focus 4.0 conference, an essential and significant platform for
organisations that understand the shared value that these discussions create as
an enabler for digital progression across Africa…Therefore, MTN will continue
to support engagement opportunities such as the Business Day 4.0
conference that reinforce our ambition to ensure that everyone in the markets
that we operate enjoys the benefits of a modern connected life.” SLAY Festival Joburg brings out 1200 young women
for day of learning and networking More than 1200 entrepreneurs and professionals
attended SLAY Festival Johannesburg, a one-day learning and networking
experience for young professional women in Africa. Co-organised by She Leads Africa and the African
Union Development Agency (AUDA-NEPAD), attendees enjoyed mainstage panel
discussions, networking sessions, masterclasses, mogul talk sessions, shopping
from local vendors and loads of fun. Attendees had direct access to some of Africa’s
biggest and brightest innovators including celebrity chef and entrepreneur
Mogau Seshoene, youth activist Zulaikha Patel, TV presenter and model Kim
Jayde, Africa Director for Global Citizen Chebet Chikumbu, doctor and mental
health advocate Dr. Khanya Khanyile, Managing Director for TRACE Southern
Africa Valentine Gaudin, actress Ayanda Thebethe, author and personal finance
coach Mapalo Makhu, Head of Marketing for Google South Africa Asha Patel,
Swiitch Beauty CEO Rabia Ghoor and many more. Keynote Speaker Bonang Matheba electrified a packed crowd as she shared her lessons on growing her brand and making money moves in 2020. Bonang encouraged young African women to pursue their goals with intention and purpose and ensure that they build their financial management skills to prepare them for the future. Locarno Film Festival African/Afro Filmmakers Outreach Locarno Film Festival in Switzerland is reaching out to African/Afro filmmakers in a bid to further diversify the festival programming and selection. Opportunities are offered to submit content without fees and join the festival competition. If you are not too familiar with Locarno Film Festival, please refer to this link to get the history, dates and other relevant information. You can directly email Ms. Charlotte Corchete on charlotte.corchete@locarnofestival.ch, Head of the Pardi Di Domani Committee at Locarno Film Festival for more information, she is copied to this communication. 2020 Night of A Thousand Drawings Festival of Art biggest, most creative and exciting yet In 2006 Felix
Falkenberger and David Quan Chong, who served as volunteers at the time for the
Paballo Ya Batho NPO, came up with the concept of Night of a 1000 Drawings to
raise funds to replace a delivery vehicle that was stolen. While in the
planning phases, a bakkie was donated but everybody agreed to continue with
1000 Drawings as the project started gaining momentum. Since then
Night of a Thousand Drawings has become a popular feature in the creative and
arts calendars, attracting the creative industries, students and tourists. The 2020 event
has grown from an evening affair to a three-day festival of art. This year also
sees the launch of ArtBattle, a global art-event that involves live painting,
music, and on-the-spot curatorship, until ultimately, one artist is left
‘standing’. Some of the artists to have signed-up include Ryan Shava and
Jessica Michelle Le Roux. “We have seen
over the last 13 years that we can only make this happen with the help of the
community.  There is an incredible
collective of people, that touch this project from the beginning of the
campaign to the final event, where all the months of hard work are displayed,
ready to make a difference.  From the
nursery school kids’ handprints to the exceptional artist that donates their
time and creativity to help.  It all
makes a difference,” said Kelly McGillavray, MD of theSquad Creative Events This year’s
sponsors include McCann 1886, Darling Films, Wunderman, and Grid whilst,
Curators, which have just been announced are a mix of well-known artists,
agency creatives, photographers and designers such as Stu Stobbs, Aysha Waja
and Thembalethu Msibi to name a few. For the Diary Join us for the next Podmeet at
Jamfest! We’re excited for next
week’s next podcasters’ meetup Melissa Mbugua from Africa Podfest in Kenya. Join us as part
of the media festival Jamfest and let’s chat all things
podcasting. Date: Wednesday 18 March 2020 Time: 16.00 – 18.00 Venue: Tshimologong Precinct, Braamfontein RSVP: Through Jamfest registration Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.