The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media industry. Sunday Times Top 100 Companies Awards go online This year, to support the social-distancing initiatives of Government and as a sign of respect to the country’s doctors, nurses, and healthcare workers – the Sunday Times Top 100 Companies Awards gala dinner, futured by BCX, will be replaced by a winners announcement that will stream online on 12 November 2020. “The year 2020 will be remembered in history as the most transformative year of the 21st century. Covid-19 pandemic has jolted our societies and our economies. We have embraced digital technologies, new way of living and, are processing and planning for new ways of doing business.  Businesses are navigating the financial and operational challenges of coronavirus while rapidly addressing the needs of their people, customers and suppliers whilst considering the contributing they can make in the rescue of the South African economy. The commitment of business leaders should not go unnoticed. For this reason we’re proud to partner with the Sunday Times to take the Awards online in 2020,” says Jonas Bogoshi, CEO of BCX. Sunday Times editor, S’thembiso Msomi, similarly believes that at a time where the South African economy is in urgent need of buoyancy and support, the role of the private sector becomes crucial in numerous ways. “The country has taken a big hit during the Covid-19 lockdown, and companies have been working hard to mitigate the effects not only for their shareholders, but most importantly their employees. They are doing their best to keep the wheels turning, and people in jobs.” Last year, Capitec Bank  Holdings Ltd was announced as the Sunday Times Top 100 Company of the Year, with Capitec CEO, Gerrie Fourie being celebrated as Business Leader of the Year. Fourie joined an elite list of former recipients that includes Lesetja Kganyago, Pravin Gordhan, Johan van Zyl, Michael Jordaan and Phuthuma Nhleko, amongst others. SA short film wins at Musicbed Challenge filmmaking competition South African short film Living Proof recently won an award at international filmmaking competition the Musicbed Challenge. Living Proof is a four-minute short film which was shot in one day and edited within a week, says Durban born filmmaker, Mawande Kheswa, who self-funded the project. The short film is based on the true story of a young man who desperate to escape poverty, travels to Durban in search of better opportunities. Faced with the reality of minimal chances of success without an education uses the last of his money to register at university and sacrifices shelter and food living on the streets while studying. Some people catch wind of his story and assist him to make his dream of being an accountant a reality “As a young South African facing 30.1% of unemployment in a country experiencing an economic downturn, I wanted to show tell a story of hope and encourage young people that you can do something to change your situation with enough determination,” said Kheswa. Musicbed Challenge was founded on the belief that creatives have the power to shape culture and make a positive contribution to the world. The challenge for the competition for 2020 was for filmmakers from all walks of life to create short films that would inspire, uplift, and build optimism toward the future during Covid-19. Scout PR & Social Media named PR & Social Media Agency of the Year 2020 – South Africa at the Media Innovator Awards Scout PR & Social Media has been awarded the title of PR & Social Media Agency of the Year 2020 – South Africa at the 2020 Media Innovator Awards. The Media Innovator Awards are held annually and hosted by UK-based Corporate Vision Magazine, a digital platform to support and guide better business practices. Corporate Vision’s awards programmes recognise businesses for doing truly great things within their field. Corporate Vision’s Media Innovator Awards are not open to public entry but rather, specific agencies are nominated by an in-house research team, and said agencies must accept the nomination in order to progress to the final round of judging. “We are naturally thrilled to have been recognised in this way,” said Scout PR and social media director, Lauren Shantall. “We are constantly striving to improve our internal management systems, apply industry best practice, and innovate within our category in order to provide our clients with optimal results. The will to do it better than before, and the responsive agility that a small agency can provide, are part of our DNA. It has always been our mission to deliver a premium service and consistently excellent results at affordable rates for our clients – this is very much part of what makes us a new-wave agency and also makes us even more relevant now as businesses start to recover from lockdown.” Scout PR & Social Media currently services a range of clients in the lifestyle sector, covering food, décor, design and art. The agency is proud to represent leading brands such as Spier, Decorex, Plascon, Design Indaba,100% Design South Africa, the Liz McGrath Collection, Deli Spices, Seven Colours Grill Seasoning™, Herman Miller and many others. Save this date! Loeries Creative week to broadcast from 16th to 21st November 2020 Get ready to be inspired at Loeries Creative Week from 16 to 21 November 2020. The Loeries will be broadcasting Creative Week online showcasing the best creative minds, talent, and brands from across Africa and the Middle East. Creative Week trailer can be found here Nominees announced for the Royalty Soapie Awards After an intense judging process and deliberation, the 4th Royalty Soapie Awards nominations are in. Hosted by Winnie Ntshaba and Mpho Popps the nominees’ announcement was a display of great possibilities for the entertainment industry as the RSAs took centre stage in an opulent theatre set up. The 4th Royalty Soapie Awards will be broadcasted on the 26 September 2020 on SABC 1 at 20:00. OUTSTANDING ART DIRECTION OUTSTANDING DIRECTING TEAM OUTSTANDING EDITING TEAM OUTSTANDING LIGHTING OUTSTANDING MAKE-UP & HAIR OUTSTANDING WARDROBE OUTSTANDING WRITING TEAM OUTSTANDING SUPPORTING ACTOR OUTSTANDING SUPPORTING ACTRESS OUTSTANDING NEWCOMER OUTSTANDING COUPLE OUTSTANDING LEAD ACTOR OUTSTANDING LEAD ACTRESS OUTSTANDING MALE VILLAIN OUTSTANDING FEMALE VILLAIN OUTSTANDING SOAPIE Cell C ranks 19 in the BrandZ Most Valuable Top 30 SA Brands Cell C’s rank on the 2020 BrandZ Most Valuable Top 30 South African Brands has remained steady at number 19 year-on-year. The company has remained in the Top 20 for three consecutive years. This is testament to the resilience of the Cell C brand, even in trying socio-economic times; the brand has maintained its customer first principle, focused on understanding the ever-changing customer needs, and continued to offer exceptional service and value that its customers have come to expect. As a proudly South African company Cell C has continued to run its social responsibility and charity initiatives aimed at improving people’s lives and providing opportunities where none existed. This year saw the company’s Take A Girl Child To Work Day initiative enter its eighteenth year. Anzisha Prize launches mini-documentary series to enable educators around the world to share African entrepreneurship success stories Educators can now share the journeys of very young African entrepreneurs in the #ItStartsWithYou series that highlights key moments that led to their success. #ItStartsWithYou sheds light on eight very young Africans whose passions, commitments and grit showcase what it means to embark on an entrepreneurial journey at a young age. The documentaries reveal new role models for other youth who might be considering entrepreneurship. Through the series, the Anzisha Prize is intentional in highlighting the importance of support from parents, educators, investors and policymakers if young people are to make successful transitions to entrepreneurship – as well as sharing key moments that are instrumental in each entrepreneur’s story. Through free-to-download case studies that accompany each documentary, educators will have a chance to delve deeper into each story and build lesson plans that encourage their students to see entrepreneurship as a career they can pursue. The case studies will serve as a curriculum tool for educators who want to build entrepreneurial education into their schools and classrooms. Watch here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.