While 20 years ago a radio station manager may have been looking after the metaphorical equivalent of a trio or quartet, today the role demands someone who can conduct an orchestra. The role of a radio station manager has drastically changed. Just 20 years ago, the position meant focussing on terrestrial broadcasting alone. Today though, the demands of digital channels, internet rivals and data management have transformed the job. “You are a conductor,” said Greg Maloka, Kaya FM managing director*. “You have moved from conducting music for a trio, and you now have an orchestra,. “The station manager’s role has broadened,” said Tessa van Staden, CapeTalk station manager,  “and I suspect it will continue to broaden. You have to monitor audience behaviour across several platforms, not just terrestrial radio. You have to be open to experimentation.” In fact, Tim Zunckel, a trainer and radio creative,
said that in his opinion the station manager role at many commercial radio
stations was largely gone and had been replaced by a managing director. “East Coast Radio, Jacaranda FM, Kaya FM, OFM and
Algoa FM no longer have a station manager. [But] you will still find the
station manager role in community radio because it is much more hands-on,”
Zunckel said. “The role of station manager has changed a lot,” said Maloka. “When I joined Kaya FM 12 years ago the very first question, I asked the staff was ‘what business are we in?’. Everyone answered ‘radio’. That is great. But we are not in radio anymore. We are now in the content business. “FM is merely a channel. Content is king. And people are seeking a credible source of content. However, you don’t want to be led by technology. Radio is still able to capture a mood, a memory, a story. Managing radio stations is going to be broader than just finding people to create content. It is also about using the new tools that you have,” Maloka said. On the topic of content, 5FM station manager JD Mostert said radio stations’ new competitors were anyone that created content. “The reality is that technology has disrupted radio in such a way that everyone has become a content creator of sorts.” Just 20 years ago, said Mostert, a radio station
operated by building an audience on FM and selling that audience to
advertisers. “You now need to understand your audience from all their various touch
points,” he said. Touch points meaning all the different digital
platforms that radio stations are now involved with, such as social media,
apps, video, podcasts and digital radio. Jacaranda FM has nine different platforms, however,
 terrestrial FM, its website and app are the
most important. In a similar vein, Kaya FM had developed lots of
content platforms, Maloka said. The station had launched Kaya TV, Kaya Travel,
Shop Kaya and Jazzuary FM, which is a jazz only online radio station. Radio’s slice of the media pie was under pressure
due to the huge growth in the internet media, said Mostert. “This means there
is pressure on the station managers to find alternative revenue streams. It is
challenging.” Advertisers were now looking for multi-platform
solutions, he said,adding that they were increasingly comparing what radio
stations had to offer with major digital platforms like Google, Twitter and
Facebook. Therefore radio stations needed to adapt and evolve rapidly. Data costs were going to fall in South Africa, which
would make the internet more accessible, and consumers would devote more of
their time to it, Mostert added. At two stations, Jacaranda FM and CapeTalk, website
audiences are already greater than their broadcast following. Jacaranda FM programming manager Hennie Myburgh said that the station had the most significant commercial radio website in the country with 1.6 million unique browsers per month, which compared with the station’s FM terrestrial audience of 1.061 million. CapeTalk‘s Van Staden said that the station’s
website had a record of over one million unique browsers in February.  By comparison, CapeTalk has a terrestrial AM
audience of between 75 000 and 80 000 people. “No one is entirely sure why there is such a big difference.
If you look at national and global trends, it is unusual to have such a small
terrestrial audience and a huge digital audience,” she added. To keep its digital assets well oiled, Jacaranda FM
has a small and growing team of five people dedicated to its digital and social
media. The station recently appointed a market engagement manager. “This shows
a desire and intention to grow in this space,” Myburgh said. “We can’t do anything without considering what the
digital impact or approach will be around it. That has been a real mind shift
for us,” he added. Trying new things was a key part of the new era,
and Jacaranda FM in February started an experiment with video-sharing social
media platform TikTok, he added. Mostert said that 5FM was experimenting with TikTok too. “Our presenters are communicating with TikTok. It is very video-heavy. Video outperforms every other form of content, especially short videos,” he added. Using its digital platform, Jacaranda FM last year
started a campaign to position itself as a national station.  Right now, 70% of its audience is in Gauteng,
and 30% is outside Gauteng, especially in the Western Cape.  Via its app, Jacaranda FM was close to being
the most prominent digital radio station in the Western Cape, Myburgh said. Digital platforms allow Jacaranda FM to reach
audiences, including an international audience. 
“We have a fair bit of audience from places like the UK, Australia,
Dubai and Canada,” Myburgh said. South African radio stations needed to start thinking globally, said 5FM’s Mostert.  “We have people listening to us from all over the world because of the internet. Our international audience is mainly South African expatriates,” he said. There was a significant opportunity to make money from a global audience. “Look at what Netflix is doing,” he added. Another new development is the emergence of dedicated digital radio outlets without a corresponding, conventional broadcast set-up. Examples of these stations are East Coast Gold and Gareth Cliff’s CliffCentral.Com. However, Zunckel’s opinion is that FM will remain relevant as it is free and relatively easy to maintain.  Kruger said that digital radio stations had not taken a lot of market share away from the traditional radio stations. Van Staden said that pure-play internet stations were not as big in South Africa  as they were overseas. “Advertising spend still goes to traditional terrestrial radio,” she said. Myburgh added: “FM has three major things that are going for it. It is live, there is still that element of locality, and it is free. Bandwidth remains a barrier to digital radio.” Big Data “I have yet to speak to a radio person who
understands big data, said Tim Zunckel, a trainer and radio creative. “So, you
aggregate 50 000 Whatsapp messages…what does that mean? Just getting data
doesn’t mean anything.” Big data refers to a massive volume of digital data
that is so large it is difficult to process using traditional databases and
software techniques, according to webopedia.com. “Unless you are a digital company like Google, I
don’t think we have enough resource and people to understand how to aggregate
digital data,” Zunckel said of the radio industry. What radio stations probably needed, he said, was data scientists, working as consultants, who could interpret big data for them. The Radio Awards added the Station Manager’s Choice Award to its line up The Radio Awards added the Station Manager’s Choice Award to its more than 80 awards in 2020. The award was introduced in order to  acknowledge the unsung heroes operating in
sales, marketing, finance and other roles at radio stations that are not
normally in the public eye, said Taryn Westoby, head of Arena Events, “So, the new award is a great way for station
managers to let these individuals, and the listening public, know how appreciated
they are, and how essential their contribution is,” Westoby said. The criteria for the award are credibility,
fellowship, work commitment and personal performance. “The nominee’s impact can be determined by their
spirit of camaraderie, commitment to the job, and their performance,” Westoby
said. By the closing date on 28 February, 12 entries had
been received for the new award. For The Radio Awards as a whole, there were a record number of entries of more than 2000 from over 160 stations. Justin Brown is a freelance journalist
with  over 20 years of  experience. He was until recently the
business editor at City Press and  worked
at The Star’s Business Report for almost ten years. He holds a four-year
Bachelor of Journalism degree from Rhodes University and a Bachelor of Commerce
degree from the University of South Africa. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.