[PRESS OFFICE] At the beginning of 2020, Google announced that – by 2022 – there would no longer be any third-party cookies permitted on their Chrome web browser. While many are saying that this is the ‘death knell’ for cookies, these pieces of technology have been slowly edged out of the market from the time that Apple edged Adobe Flash Player out of the market. Many
advertisers and publishers alike are bemoaning this change,  which will ultimately force them to start
using targeted advertisements which will not allow them access to any and all
of users’ personal details. As cookies are the cornerstone of digital
marketing, publishers and advertisers will need to rethink how they advertise
so that they can remain competitive. “Google is proposing a ‘privacy sandbox,” says Lisa Schneider, managing director of the Digital School of Marketing. “What this means is that instead of third party cookies to gain access to a wide variety of the personal information of people who click on a link, advertisers will only be able to gain access to a pre-defined set of information.” These
universal IDs, which are being proposed, are technology that is built on
anonymous user tokens. This technology is designed to be used by and, as a
means of communication between, publishers, advertisers as well as ad tech
vendors. Over
the last six months, corporations have had to reinvent the box  – as opposed to merely thinking outside it
–to stay afloat. This is because so many of the ‘normal’ things have had to
change. “The
world of digital advertising and marketing,” concludes Schneider, “is one of
these processes which have had to change. This alteration should not be bemoaned
but should rather be seen as an opportunity for all parties concerned to apply
a lot of creativity and develop something new – and never thought about before
– to the imminent absence of third-party cookies.” Creativity in the online world is essential as everything is constantly changing. If you want to learn how to navigate these changes, then you need to do a digital marketing course. The Digital School of Marketing is an online provider of accredited digital marketing education which is accredited by the MICT Seta. Armed with a qualification from DSM, you’ll have the core skills needed to future-proof your marketing and succeed in the corporate world of digital marketing and advertising.  To find out more, visit our website on www.digitalschoolofmarketing.co.za. Call us on 0861 428 710 or e-mail: info@digitalschoolofmarketing.co.za. Join the conversations : Instagram | Facebook | Twitter Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.