[PRESS OFFICE] Six months into the global pandemic, the term ‘new normal’ has been doing its rounds a fair bit and has become the new normal. We were all forced to adjust to life in lockdown and as restrictions are starting to lift, we can look back at the various stages and the precarious challenges we were faced with. Having largely been in survival mode up until this point, as the world starts to open and lift restrictions and people are eager to move on with their lives, it’s a good time to start thinking about how we can harness creativity (in a personal and professional capacity) from this unusual situation. We may be waiting for a vaccine for a while, so learning ways to encourage our creativity now can make a world of difference if we’re forced back into strict lockdown at some point, or if it takes a couple of years for medical experts to conquer the virus. Adapting creatively is also very
important as there are further challenges on the horizon. A shift towards the
Fourth Industrial Revolution in South Africa is underway, which will affect
much of how we live, work, and connect with each other. Creative blocks are the
last thing we will want to cross when we need important ideas to remain
relevant in our industries, as well as to keep innovating as things move into
an entirely new realm. The current ‘new normal’ may soon be replaced with an even ‘newer’ normal in South Africa, with the Fourth Industrial Revolution heading directly towards us. This change will not only affect the way we live and work, but also the way we harness creativity and how we express ourselves in the world. In a nutshell, the Fourth Industrial
Revolution refers to the ongoing automation of traditional practices, in the
wake of the growth of smart technology. It is a blurring of the boundaries
between the physical, digital, and biological world, with AI, robotics, data
mining, the Internet of Things (IoT) and other technologies shaping the way
humanity operates moving forward. This shift will disrupt many
industries, change how people consume things, and in turn, present new
opportunities for fresh ideas. Creative agencies like ourselves have a
responsibility to understand what this means and how it will affect the
marketing landscape moving forward, as well as how we can use this change to
continue to deliver the best campaigns to clients. The Fourth Industrial revolution will
not only present a fundamental change in the way we go about our lives, but
more importantly, it will affect the way we relate
to one another in the world. There is potential for huge promise, but also,
possible peril. As social media has already illustrated, technologies are
growing faster than human beings are able to fully comprehend, and with for-profit
business models at the helm of these operations, mental health (and the general
wellbeing of people) is considered secondary. The long-term consequences of
this could be severe. Countries around the world are
therefore already being forced to rethink how society can benefit from the
technology-driven revolution ahead, which will require decision-makers to think
about how we can create a more inclusive, equal and sustainable human-centered
future. In a country rife with inequality and unemployment, we should be asking
ourselves how technology can lift humanity up, rather than being divisive or
exclusive, and with a leaning towards the greater sustainability of the planet
as a whole. Simply put, we will need all the creative ideas we can get! Overcoming creative friction Creative blocks can be difficult to
overcome, and with the Fourth Industrial Revolution already being embraced in South
Africa, we need creative solutions without hurdles. Sometimes, creative
friction is the result of spending too much
time trying to come up with creative solutions, leaving the person flat and
deflated. At other times, getting started can be a problem, and the idea never
enters the room, or hits the page. Regardless of what brought on the block, a reset is the perfect medicine. Taking some time out to clear your mind, and to focus on your own self-care, can make you a more creative individual, as well a better asset to any creative team. Try meditation or yoga if you are keen to slow your mind down. Jump into that book that has been gathering dust on your shelf. Consume content you may deem mindless (Brene Brown recently talked about binge watching Law & Order because of the predictable nature of its episodes), giving the other side of your brain the time it needs to regroup, and opening up space for creative ideas to flourish moving forward. Creativity is the cornerstone of innovation, and if we are going to navigate the pandemic and the Fourth Industrial Revolution together as a nation, knowing how to get ourselves into the right space will be key. The quicker we can create processes that work — hopefully built with regular intervals for resetting in tow — the stronger our creative minds grow, the better personal creative projects turn out, and the closer we’ll get to staying resilient in times of change and uncertainty. You up for the challenge? MediaHeads 360 are Level 1 BEE media specialists that develop and implement integrated, strategic marketing campaigns across diverse platforms. Our services are inspired by our 360 approach and include idea generation, production, implementation, campaign tracking, syndication, research, branded content, mobile broadcast, non-traditional television and radio campaigns, social media amplification activations and influencer marketing. In addition, we leverage our excellent relationships with media owners to negotiate with platforms across the country. We ACTIVATE by creating holistic, result-driven campaigns within the right environment. We CAPTIVATE through well-implemented and engaging campaigns with multiple touch points. We AMPLIFY and optimise your reach and impact with 360 solutions. For more information, visit www.mediaheads360.co.za Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.