The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: The SABC acquires broadcasting rights to the Bundesliga The South African Broadcasting
Corporation (SABC) has acquired the broadcasting rights of the Bundesliga
through its sports channel, SABC Sport. SABC Sport and Bundesliga International, a subsidiary of the DFL Deutsche
Fußball Liga, have reached an agreement for the free-to-air (FTA) broadcasting
rights of the Bundesliga for the 2020-2021 and 2021-2022 seasons. It comprises 34
matches per season, with one live match broadcast per match week, the
Bundesliga ‘Weekly’ preview show and the Bundesliga highlights show. All the
live matches will be preceded by a 30min build-up, with an expert panel of
analysts to provide the in-depth preview analysis for the match. “There has been a significant
amount of effort that has gone into making this deal happen, and we, as the
SABC, are delighted to partner with the DFL in bringing football from one of
the world’s best leagues to viewers across the country,” said SABC Sport general manager,
Gary Rathbone. “The Bundesliga is an attractive football proposition, which
brings some of the game’s most iconic football rivalries, a league displaying
exquisite technique and an abundance of passion, from one of the world’s great
football nations. With this acquisition, SABC Sport is well on its way to delivering a
diversified sport offering to South African sports fans. We understand the
different needs of our audiences and commercial partners, and aims to bring
more great sports content into their homes and onto their digital devices”. Robert Klein, Bundesliga
International CEO, said: “With the SABC we have secured the premium
free-to-air broadcaster in South Africa to screen the Bundesliga over the next
two seasons. We are very excited to partner with the SABC to bring Germany’s
top league to South Africa’s vibrant, passionate community of football fans.” People moves Caitlin Robertson joins the Tribeca PR team as
account director Tribeca Public Relations (Tribeca) has welcomed
Caitlin Robertson as an account director, leading the team that works on
accounts including Red Bull, Vuma and Webfleet Solutions, among others. With extensive experience across technology,
professional and industry services, hospitality and lifestyle, and property
sectors, Robertson brings a wealth of business-driven
strategy insights, creativity, crisis communications, and staff management and
development experience to Tribeca. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in Creative Brand
Communications from Vega, the Brand Communication School, a Certificate in
Social Media Marketing from the Red & Yellow Creative School of Business,
and a Content and Community Management Master-Class at the Cerebra Academy in
association with the Gordon Institute of Business Science. Mix 93.8 FM welcomes stalwart entertainers Craig
Urbani and Ryan Flynn Their brand new show THE PULSE, started on Monday, 7 September 2020 and broadcasts weekdays from 21H00 – 23H00. Urbani is a well-known
entertainer, singer and TV actor with over three decades filled with critical
acclaim and various awards in the theatre, television and entertainment
industry. His theatre shows include The Buddy Holly Story, The Rocky Horror
Picture Show, Chicago, Rock of Ages, The Sound of Music and West Side Story to
name a few. He is also a SAFTA winner for his work on ‘Isidingo’ and was also
seen on ‘Scandal’. He now wants to put all his wit, charm and entertainment
experience into this new chapter of his radio career. Flynn was literally
born into the entertainment industry, touring globally with his parents (Anne
Power and Bill Flynn) as a baby. His theatre credits over the last 15 years
include classic shows such as Jersey Boys, Cinderella (receiving a Durban
Theatre Award for Best Male Lead in a musical) and The Rocky Horror Picture
Show (receiving a Naledi Theatre Award nomination for Best Newcomer) to name a
few. They describe Mix 93.8
FM as the perfect place for a crazy show run by two justifiably insane
performers as hosts. THE PULSE will encompass the feeling of being at the
forefront of what’s happening in the entertainment sphere in Johannesburg. ViacomCBS
Networks Africa welcomes Olivier Jollet as senior VP, emerging business,
Europe, Middle East, Africa & Asia ViacomCBS Networks Africa has welcomed the
appointment of Olivier Jollet to head up a new business unit, which includes
the entire digital portfolio – AVOD, SVOD, Mobile services and products as well
as Advanced Advertising and VDSI – for Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia
(EMEAA). As the company embarks on an aggressive phase of
digital transformation, its EMEAA division, led by Raffaele Annecchino,
President, ViacomCBS Networks EMEAA (VCN EMEAA), has created a new dedicated
unit to drive its digital business and capture new opportunities focused on the
pay and free streaming sector, as well as mobile business, advanced advertising
and ViacomCBS Digital Studios International. As Senior Vice President Emerging
Business, VCN EMEAA, Jollet will be responsible for developing and expanding
the digital business across these markets reporting directly to Raffaele
Annecchino. Discovery streamlines its EMEA operation As a result of a wider restructure of Discovery’s
business in EMEA, Amanda Turnbull will leave Discovery as GM for the Middle
East and Africa business. The MEA business will be combined with Russia and
Central and Eastern European regions, as well as the EMEA Pay-TV brands, under
GM Jamie Cooke. “We are working systematically to rationalise our
operation and find synergies and efficiencies across our EMEA business. We have
come a long way over the years and with this restructuring we have defined a
clear path towards a leaner operating model, where we utilize the best
competence across markets. By combining knowhow and leveraging our scale, we
will be able to streamline decision making and operate with greater speed and
focus towards future business opportunities,” said Kasia Kieli, president and
MD Europe. In the new EMEA operation, Jamie Cooke will take
on a new combined role for Russia, CEEMCA, MEA & Pay TV. Business moves SANEF launches round two of its Media Relief Fund The
South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) has announced that in conjunction
with the Social Justice Initiative (SJI), it is now inviting applications for a
second round of emergency funding for journalists who have lost their
livelihoods as a direct result of the Covid-19 national disaster. In our first
round we received 320 applications and 227 journalists were selected for
payments. Journalists received a small donation of R5000 to purchase
necessities like food and clothing. “SANEF
is happy to announce that round two is now open. We call on all on everyone to
spread the word,” it said. In terms of the criteria the following people can apply: Practising journalists who have not received retrenchment packages, freelance or contract journalists who have been retrenched or had their contracts cancelled from the date of implementation of the national lockdown on 26 March 2020 and thereafter as a result of Covid 19. Photographers, print, broadcast and multimedia journalists are all included. The deadline for applications is Wednesday 30 September 2020. Please see a link to the application form: Application form_emergency funding_September 2020_final 947 now broadcasts from Montecasino Commercial music radio station 947 has expanded its physical broadcast studio footprint to include a satellite studio at Montecasino – Fourways, Johannesburg. The high-tech, 40 square metre studio launched on Friday 4 September with a four-hour broadcast of popular afternoon drive show ‘Fresh On 947’, featuring DJ Fresh, co-host Mantsoe Pout and funny guy Shannon. Select evening and weekend shows will be broadcast live from the studio going forward. The
studio features state-of-the-art broadcasting equipment, lighting and a stage
with retractable, sound-proof glass doors for audience access and participation.
The space also includes a customised backdrop
wall where listeners can take selfies while watching their favourite presenters
in action. The decision to create a studio at Montecasino was based on research and insights. “947 listeners are more likely than other SEM 7-10 South Africans to have visited a casino and lifestyle complex in the past 12 months. We realised that if we want to interact with our audience, we need to be where they are. For the people of Fourways, Randburg, Sandton and  surrounds, Montecasino is their entertainment venue of choice,” said Thando Makhunga, 947 Station Manager. The
satellite studio will allow 947 to solidify its positioning as Joburg’s
favourite music station. Not only is the station the biggest regional
commercial radio station in Gauteng, but 86% of its audience is SEM 7-10. The
station also boasts the second highest average household income
in the province after sister station 702. Daily Maverick 168 pilot edition launch a success Daily Maverick has successfully defied the odds,
piloting its weekly print edition with 8 800 copies in the hands of South
African readers. Copies were distributed across 20 Pick n Pay stores in
Johannesburg and Cape Town. The newspaper is free to customers who swiped their
Pick n Pay Smart Shopper cards, with a cover price of R20.00 per copy. The pilot edition was overwhelmingly well
received by readers. Over 6 200 copies, or 70%, were taken up in the 20 stores
with 96% of readers swiping their Smart Shopper cards to access the benefit of
a free copy. The pilot was designed to test the production,
printing, distribution, marketing and content mix ahead of the official launch,
and to establish reader demand levels. The results will also help determine
volumes, and launch stores across the country, using the more than 17 000 votes
submitted by Daily Maverick readers for their preferred Pick n Pay store. Daily Maverick CEO, Styli Charalambous, reflected
on a hugely successful pilot weekend. “We had a few important things we needed
to test, but foremost was the question of whether we could successfully
leverage our highly regarded online publication into a special weekend print
edition, and whether readers still wanted a tangible news product in their
hands. The answer was a resounding yes!” Kgaugelo
Maphai launches independent integrated marketing and communications group Former MD of The MediaShop(JHB)
and entrepreneur Kgaugelo Maphai has announced his new venture, Matrix
Communication Group (Matrix Group), which is an integrated marketing and
communications holding company. The group is owned 100% by MI Holdings (Pty)
Ltd, Maphai’s investment vehicle, which is pursuing interests in smart farming,
renewable energy, cannabis, marketing and communications and technology. Maphai is an accomplished businessman
who has experience in marketing, media and communications within the
client, media owner and agency environments during his 21-year career. While at
The MediaShop, he enjoyed great success leading the agency to win new business
as well as numerous awards including the Financial Mail’s AdFocus Network
Agency of the year, as well as MOST Awards Full Service Media Agency and
overall Media Agency of the Year twice in the three years he was at the helm. Since leaving The MediaShop at the
end of June, Maphai was approached by a number of independent agencies to be a
partner or a director in their companies. He has taken a strategic decision to
rather set up an entity and acquire equity partnership with some of these
agencies and also have affiliates. The group has also appointed Dineo
Mahloele as the Managing Director effective 1 September 2020. Mahloele will
focus on day to day business operations as well as keep constant contact with
the verticals. Mahloele is a respected communication specialist with over
20-years’ experience having worked for the likes of YFM, Total Exposure, Meropa
Communications and consulted for various organisations like ArcelorMittal SA,
The European Union in SA and BCX, to mention a few. Hermanus Times is free now! Hermanus
Times, from September, will be distributed free of charge. It
has a history spanning more than 70 years, and is the preferred source of local
news in the Overstrand. This reliable and well-loved news source, from now on,
will serve the news and entertainment needs as well as advertising
opportunities for the whole Overberg region. Olivia
Dickson, publisher of Hermanus Times, said: “Overberg Media’s free
publication in the Overberg, the Theewaterskloof & Kaap Agulhas Gazette,
alas, shuts its doors at the end of August. We, however, will still be serving
the Overberg community through Hermanus Times which, from September,
will be available in Overstrand, Theewaterskloof, Kaap Agulhas and Swellendam.” Dickson
says Hermanus Times’print run will be boosted to 20 000
copies, and it will be distributed throughout the Overberg. Daleen
Fouché, Editor of Hermanus Times, said she was proud to be turning Hermanus
Times into a fully fledged regional newspaper. She says: “In these
uncertain times that we find ourselves in it is a privilege to be able to
guarantee news that is accurate, timely and important for the Overberg
communities.” R Squared formally
partners with syndicated agencies R Squared has announced a formal partnership with
industry leaders such as iProspect and Posterscope of the international Dentsu
Aegis Network. The move from informal collaboration to formal syndication
partnerships provides all R Squared
clients with a syndicated network of expert skills and services to amplify
their influencer marketing campaigns. “We often find that influencer marketing campaigns
are siloed by clients outside of their normal paid-for media and social
commerce strategies. With this move we empower clients to truly integrate
influencer marketing into their overall marketing and advertising strategies,”
said Stéphane Rogovsky, CEO of R Squared. The agency works with existing client agencies
where they are available; but should there be a need for further syndication
assistance, the agency partner network is at the ready. Services include
digital Out Of Home to broadcast influencer messages across innovative
channels, the marrying of paid media with influencer marketing campaigns to
optimise budgets, performance marketing through opted-in audiences and social
commerce by bringing shoppable posts into influencer’s feeds. Woolworths appoints
Flume Flume has
been appointed digital media agency to Woolworths South Africa and is set to
take over the reins late in 2020 with a digital-first leap into the new normal
of South African retail. Flume will
lead an integrated media approach across various digital channels with emphasis
being placed on Flume’s strategic digital media capabilities and effective
media buying. Digital
services such as digital strategy, development, animation, SEO, tracking and
analytic services, and digital marketing dashboards will likely also form part
of the scope of work. “The team is
counting down the days to 1 November 2020, the day on which we can start making
our contribution to the reputable and much loved Woolworths brand”, said Garren
Coetzee, GM of Flume Cape Town. Flume will
be working alongside Woolworths’ internationally acclaimed internal creative
agency, offering a digitally driven perspective to drive innovative work that
complements and enhances what they already do exceptionally well. When pigs
fly: MetropolitanRepublic awarded highly contested Eskort account Pitching for new accounts is demanding at the best
of times, so bringing home the bacon under challenging COVID social distancing
limitations has one agency going hog wild – MetropolitanRepublic has been
awarded the highly contested account for pork product powerhouse, Eskort. After almost two decades of working with one
agency, Eskort’s marketing team led by Group Marketing Manager, Marcelle
Pienaar, went to market with a detailed list of requirements, looking for an
integrated agency with strong FMCG and food experience. They found what they were looking for at
MetropolitanRepublic. “MetropolitanRepublic’s team proved to us not only their
passion and understanding of the category of pork, but offered deep insights
across our complex target markets; always cognitive of the challenges within
our core market as well as our growth markets. “They really got under the skin of the category,
the consumer and the brand, and the Eskort team is fully confident that the
agency will deliver the mutual vision of becoming a desired and consumer
relevant brand,” Pienaar said. MetropolitanRepublic founder and owner of a pet pig
himself, Paul Warner, said Eskort is a brand that is firmly rooted in South
Africa’s food culture and evokes strong memories of family and friends sharing
meals. JZA
– Your Jewellery magazine and Solitaire magazine announce collaboration JZA
– Your Jewellery Magazine has officially announced its media partnership with
‘Solitaire’, Asia’s most recognized women’s jewellery magazine in the Asia
Pacific region – published in Singapore. “The
JZA team and its independent publishers, Isikhova Media, are absolutely
thrilled about this collaboration,” said Jason Aarons, publishing director.
“Solitaire enjoys one of the highest jewellery magazine reputations in the
world, boasts superb content and exceptionally proactive and engaging
management, marketing, sales and editorial teams. “In
this ‘next normal’, global jewellery brands are looking at sound and smart ways
to integrate COVID-19’s ‘we’re all in this together’ way of life – locally and
beyond borders ensuring ongoing consumer market reach. Part of JZA’s strategy
is to embrace this and give our readers a menu which is predominantly South
African-driven, but which also delivers credible and on-trend, international
jewellery content.” Lionel Messi
partners with Budweiser Global football icon Lionel Messi and Budweiser
have announced a long-term partnership.  Admired by fans and respected by
rivals, the King of Beers is celebrating Messi’s journey to the pinnacle of
global football, defined by his commitment and relentless determination to both
his teammates and craft. “I’m excited to partner with Budweiser to share my
journey that was based on a determination to be the best player I can be. Day
after day, year after year, it took sacrifice and hard work to reach my
dreams.  Hopefully fans around the world will find inspiration in my story
to commit to their craft and never give up on greatness, no matter how hard the
journey,” Messi said. To introduce the collaboration, Messi and Budweiser
have released a provocative film designed to inspire fans to never give up on
greatness by highlighting Messi’s journey of self-belief as he heads into his
20th professional season, titled “They Say”:
//www.youtube.com/watch?v=1Rqy9LbVc_8 Ukhozi FM launches campaign to celebrate indigenous
South African languages this Heritage Month Ukhozi FM is taking the listeners on a journey
around South Africa to expose and educate them to the various indigenous
languages that make up South Africa’s rich cultural tapestry. The station’s various shows have selected different
languages and have reached out to other SABC stations to assist in sourcing
relevant experts to assist in this educational campaign. These including RSG;
Munghana Lonene FM; Phalaphala FM; Motsweding FM; Lesedi FM; Thobela FM;
Ligwalagwala FM and Ikwekwezi FM. The Heritage month campaign forms part of the
continued celebrations of Ukhozi FM’s 60th year of excellence in broadcasting. vivo announces VISION+ initiative to promote the culture of mobile photography vivo has announced
VISION+, a global initiative that will build a visual content ecosystem,
reaffirming the brand’s long-term commitment to user-centric design and
leadership in mobile photography technology. The VISION+ ecosystem is composed
of the vivo VISION+ Mobile Photography Awards, launched jointly with National
Geographic, along with the vivo VISION+ Mobile Photography Academy, the vivo
VISION+ Master Class, the vivo VISION+ Youth Program, and the vivo VISION+
Photographers Federation. vivo VISION+ centers around “JOY
IMAGE” as its core foundation and will form a new visual content ecosystem
through initiatives including content co-creation, education and cultural
exchanges. The strategy fuses vivo’s product innovation leadership with the
evolving needs of smartphone users who view mobile photography as an important
part of culture and everyday life. Making
moves Ogilvy becomes first agency brand to reach one
million followers on LinkedIn Ogilvy has become the first agency
brand to reach an impressive social media milestone: one million followers on
LinkedIn. LinkedIn has become the social
destination for business, employment, and company culture content. Ogilvy’s
global social and thought leadership strategy is a natural fit with LinkedIn.
The one million follower landmark is the result of the cultivation of a
community where big ideas that shape brands are shared, celebrated, and
discussed. Ogilvy’s one million LinkedIn
followers come from across the globe and the business spectrum. The top five
nations represented in Ogilvy’s LinkedIn community are the United States,
India, United Kingdom, Brazil, and Spain; its followers come from industries as
varied as Marketing and Advertising to Information Technology and Services, to
Design, Higher Education and Financial Services. Spotlight on GBV needs to be extended far beyond
Women’s Month Women’s month has drawn to a close but the issues
that plague South African women remain. In line with the MultiChoice Group’s #StandAgainstGBV initiative, DStv handed the
microphone over to women of change this month and focused on three
non-governmental organisations (NGOs) that help women who have been affected by
gender-based violence. The NGOs involved in this campaign were the Frida
Hartley Shelter, Lawyers Against Abuse and Cornerstone Woman. Each of these NGOs received one week of airtime
where they had the opportunity to inform DStv viewers about the work they do.
Additionally, each NGO partook in a takeover of the DStv social media channels
to further promote their causes. The handing over of the microphone to the Frida
Hartley Shelter, Lawyers Against Abuse and Cornerstone Woman allowed these
organisations to talk about issues so prevalent in our country right now and
the aim was to educate women experiencing these issues on the safe space these
organisations provide. “ We may not have the answers, but we have the platform
and we are grateful that we could share it with these inspirational NGOs during
August,” said Ntsika Msuthu, DStv’s PR and social media manager. SAMRO eases royalty claim process while enhancing
transparency The Southern African Music Rights Organisation
(SAMRO) has launched a new platform that grants all its members, access to the
undocumented list of musical works. Prior to the launch of this platform, which is a
first in Africa as no other collecting music society offers this benefit, only
SAMRO Publisher members could access the list of undocumented works. “We are committed to improving our service
offering to our members and transparency is key to achieving that. Giving all
our members access to the undocumented list of works as opposed to a select few
will come as good news to our composer members, who previously didn’t have
access to this category of works” said Mark Rosin, CEO of SAMRO. Rosin says claims from undocumented works have
been on the increase over the years and in the financial year that ended 30
June 2020, SAMRO paid out a total of R50m from undocumented works, which is a
record payment. For the Diary Dates to diarise for the Business Day SME Matters project Join the Business Day SME Matters digital series in partnership with the Johannesburg Business School, as we look at some of Africa’s leading ‘profit with purpose’ companies that are contributing to reducing inequality, building economic prosperity and are mindful of the broader environment of business and society, while mitigating the risk and enhancing the profit potential of doing business in Africa. Event 1: Business Day SME Matters in partnership with JBS The role of business has changed.
In the last two years, the debate around the future of capitalism, the
definition of the firm and the true purpose of business hit the mainstream. This was accelerated by Covid-19.
The virus and ensuing crisis has compressed Mega Trends, and the ‘Covid Reset’
has brought dramatic changes that present a unique opportunity for significant
change in what we do, and how we do it. Should companies be operating with
a stronger conscience? Has Covid altered our thinking as business leaders or
will we resume ‘business as usual’ in the months to come? Speakers include: Event 2: Business Day SME Matters in partnership with PayFast You’ve structured and finally launched your e-commerce website – so what’s next? There is a lot of competition out there, but where there is competition, there is also significant opportunity. If you want to become part of the
rising tide of  e-commerce success stories, you need to find ways to stand
out. In part 3 of this 4 part series, Pavlo Phitidis, business growth expert in partnership with PayFast, will explore smart marketing strategies to set yourself apart and attract potential customers. AfricaCom and AfricaTech 2020: Digital Playground – a
key to Connecting the Next Billion in Africa Central to this year’s AfricaCom and AfricaTech events
(anchors of the new virtual Africa Tech Festival), taking place 10 – 12
November, is how to connect the next billion Africans to the Internet.  Several sessions over two days, will focus on
how to include the currently disconnected, whether through the deployment of
satellite, balloon or standard infrastructure roll out, as well as the
motivating factors that are driving Africans to get connected. “Without
doubt leisure
activities are contributing to the increased demand for mobile data and
streaming services in developing economies, as well as in the developed
world…accordingly, many investors 
are looking at film, music, gaming, sports industries,” says Aubrey Hruby, who has worked in the VC
space and is a senior fellow with the Atlantic Council’s Africa
Center. Hruby will be chairing key sessions on day two of the keynote
presentations at this year’s AfricaCom virtual conference. WARC partners with IAB Tech
Lab for REBOOT 2020 WARC is partnering with IAB Tech Lab: REBOOT 2020, the virtual
conference for digital advertisers on September 15 – 17. REBOOT 2020 will join stakeholders
from across the globe who are re-architecting digital marketing—designing a
better blueprint for a stronger and more flexible framework to support the
industry. REBOOT 2020 will feature speakers from Google, Verizon Media, One Trust, Triton Digital, Facebook and many more, including US Commissioning Editor, Cathy Taylor. She managed digital content for both AdWeek and Advertising Age and was the founder of the AdWeek blog, AdFreak. She has worked with organizations including Mobile Marketing Association, Omnicom, Razorfish and PwCs strategy + business. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.