New Frame has just turned two years old. The not-for-profit social justice online publication was developed after editor in chief Richard Pithouse “began to think more seriously about what a useful alternative to both ‘fake news’ and the mainstream media might look like, and what intellectually serious and credible work that is not hidden away in academic journals and written in stolid prose might look like”. It was when the rise of ‘fake news’
circulated on social media enabled the rapid rise of right-wing politics in
much of the world, and was used to try and defend the repressive kleptocracy
that festered in the Zuma years, that Pithouse “increasingly came to see the
media as a terrain of critical importance for the possibilities of democratic
politics. These are the indelible impressions that spurred action – firstly by
contributing labour to the work done by Niren Tolsi, Pravasan Pillay, Percy
Zvomuya and others on The Con, and then by working with others to roll the dice
with New Frame”. An academic, Pithouse had written for
newspapers, initially about music but later, about politics. “As a writer I’ve
often found publications explicitly uninterested in the stories I have most
wanted to tell. For instance, editors often loved stories attacking Jacob Zuma,
but had little to no interest in a story on something like the assassination of
a grassroots activist,” he says. “At the same time, I’ve worked in and with
many grassroots organisations and struggles of different kinds.” It was this experience, the “juxtaposition
of these three different locations from which to understand the world” that
engendered in him “a progressively deeper cynicism towards much of the academy
and the media”. Pithouse is clear that there is excellent
work being done in these spaces, but also “a lot of work that reinscribes a set
of pernicious prejudices against the majority of people in our country, and
against forms of organisation and struggle outside of formal politics”. Newspapers and academic journals, he adds, have also often – perhaps it might be correct to say routinely – published things that are simply not true. “In some cases, they have allowed themselves to manipulated into doing so, and in other cases they have done so as a result of a lack of seriousness about distinguishing facts from assumptions – assumptions that are frequently prejudicial,” he says. Starting a new media publication in
seriously tough times for the media industry as a whole was always going to be
a big ask, but Pithouse says that with “sufficient trust with sufficient people
a lot can be achieved”. He stresses that everything New Frame has achieved
comes out of the collaborative work of an excellent team. What was difficult, he says, was getting
really good writers and photographers with whom there was no existing
relationship to offer their work to the project as freelancers. “But once we
launched, in our news editors’ kitchen, this quickly became much easier. This
was helped by both the evident quality of the work, and that we always made
sure that we paid freelancers on time,” he adds. The business model, Pithouse explains, is
based on looking for upfront support to get going, then building credibility
and a readership, and then asking that readership to support the publication
thus ensuring its sustainability. “We took a wager, which is that if we produce
work of high quality, and real credibility, enough people will come to value it
for it to be able to continue. For this reason, we avoid rushed or sensational
stories that may generate ‘clicks’ in the short term, but will compromise the
publication’s credibility in the long term. We also avoid using writers who are
compromised in some way. We’ve bet everything on quality and credibility and,
in the end, we hope that striving to achieve these two things will enable
sustainability. But that’s a hope, not a guarantee.” Nevertheless, New Frame simply cannot rely
on the existing reading public to support it. Much of the existing middle-class
audience for media, he says, and other actors that are able to support media,
“may well appreciate our focus on credibility and quality, they will not all
appreciate our commitment to social justice, and our commitment to strive to
write, photograph and illustrate outside of the prejudices against the majority
of people in our country that saturate much of the elite public sphere”. It’s a serious challenge building a “new public”, with no guarantees of survival, but Pithouse remains convinced it’s worth trying. “Our foundational ethical commitment, to which we strive to hold fast, is to the equality of all people,” he says. New Frame recently edged past 300 000
readers a month, and over 100 000 followers on social media, which is “not
bad after just two years”. Talent, of course, is a key element. “New
Frame was largely put together with a mixture of people that I knew, people
that I found by having endless coffees with likeminded people who have been in
journalism for a long time, and people that we found through advertising,” says
Pithouse. “I also went to people that I respected and
trusted in all the journalism schools in South Africa and asked them to
recommend their best students to me. I then met the students who were
recommended and discussed the project, which at that stage did not yet exist,
with them. “Interestingly I only found two people this
way. Many of the students in the journalism schools that I spoke to made it
clear that their immediate ambition was to became famous, and successful in
entirely mainstream ways. I found very few people in the journalism schools
with real intellectual curiosity, with a genuine passion for writing, and in
interest in telling the stories of the majority,” he says. “I remember very
well the look of absolute horror that flashed across the face of one of the
students that I spoke to when I asked her how she would feel about writing a
story on a public hospital in rural Mpumalanga. The two exceptions, where I
found excellent people, were Wits and UJ.” New Frame has mainly lived up to his
expectations, Pithouse says. “But, of course, there are many stories that we
haven’t told, and whole areas of urgent concern that we haven’t touched on or
adequately developed. The environment is one of these areas. We also need to do
a lot more to give some voice to the rich array of different forms of
grassroots politics in South Africa. There are extraordinary people, doing
extraordinary work, many of them women, who seldom appear in the media. But
there are areas where I think that we’ve done very well, such as police
violence, the taxi industry, labour and xenophobia”. Quality is the underlying principle. New Frame journalists take time to do stories, and great care is taken to edit the material carefully. But the prejudices that saturate our society, he says, are so profound that people have often been actively taught that repeating them is good journalism. “Trying to move away from these prejudices is often like trying to brush an elite common sense against the grain. It’s not always easy and we often don’t achieve as much as we can,” Pithouse says. “In this respect all we can do it to commit to a permanent striving, and to work to create an intellectual serious environment in which we can discuss stories and issues seriously – and in dialogue with trusted and respected experts outside of our newsroom. We run regular workshops aimed at improving the way we cover various issues.” Pithouse says the broken old media model,
which often had profound biases towards elites of various kinds, has given rise
to alternatives, which have made a valuable contribution to the media sector. “But
there needs to be a wide ranging and serious discussion about how a democratic
public sphere can be built and sustained. New Frame is an intervention in a
period of crisis for the media, but it, and other projects like it, cannot be
the solution,” he says. “I don’t know that the solution could be but suspect that it may involve heavy taxation of social media companies to subsidise independent media, with firm guarantees of editorial independence mediated through credible intermediary institutions. Of course, this is not easily achieved. These companies are among the richest and most powerful in the world, and if they were taxed to cross subsidise independent media it is not clear how the integrity of this process could be guaranteed.” Sandra Gordon is deeply schooled in marketing, with experience in media, advertising, branding, communication, public relations and publishing (print and online). Currently CEO of the Iconic Group, a savvy collection of entrepreneurial companies offering services across the marketing and communication spectrum, including Stone Soup PR. She is the former publisher of The Media Online and The Media, and founder of the MOST Awards.  Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.