One of South Africa’s most influential and trustworthy news and opinion online portals, the Daily Maverick, has seemingly done an about-face by producing a print edition. Is this rank stupidity or diabolically clever? When I first heard about it I had to shake my head in disbelief because I remembered a few decades ago having lunch with the man behind Maverick, Branko Brkic, who was bemoaning the fact that his Maverick print magazine was becoming very expensive to produce and the cover price was beginning to cause reader-shedding. At the time I was involved with Alec Hogg’s Moneyweb, producing Marketingweb. I suggested to Branko that he start seriously looking at taking Maverick online. He did and the rest is history. So, why
step back into the outrageously expensive maelstrom of print media? Well, I think it was a brilliant step. And the first bit of brilliance was balancing the R20 cover price with an offer of free copies of Maverick 168 to all Pick n Pay SmartShopper cardholders. That’s where I got my copy of the first edition. Read more: Daily Maverick 168 and Pick n Pay: A smart solution Read more: Renowned digital publisher to launch print title Secondly, contrary
to the concept of using online to promote print, a strategy which newspapers
still use, Daily Maverick is using print to promote its online offering. Smart. Clearly, it
seems, part of their print strategy is based on the fact that the only newspapers
in South Africa that are profitable are those community newspapers that are given
away free. The only difference
is that all those newspapers are geographically community-based. Content is
typically Daily Maverick. It’s great journalism – something as rare as hens’ teeth
in South Africa today. The first issue was 33 broadsheet pages with a well put
together slightly smaller than tabloid, lifestyle insert. My nearest
Pick n Pay branch ran out of copies quite quickly and my guess is that perhaps
they underestimated the initial take-off. Which can create a headache because
running out of newspapers irritates consumers no end yet just simply upping the
print run is cripplingly expensive . The paper
is jam-packed with QR codes to allow readers to access video material and it
could well in future prove to be an attractive print/online package for
advertisers. But, most importantly,
the content is good quality. And that’s the kicker. You can actually see all
those newspapers that cut staff in an effort to keep their heads above water, losing
huge numbers of readers through a combination of increasing cover pricing and
absolutely crap content. It is going
to be fascinating to see how this new print product performs in the months and
years ahead. It’s a brave move. Chris Moerdyk (@chrismoerdyk ) is a marketing analyst and advisor and owner of Moerdyk Marketing with many years of experience in marketing and the media as well as serving as non-executive director and chairman of companies. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.