[PARTNER CONTENT] You can boost your internet speed if you get South African VPNs here. Among other benefits, using a premium VPN like Surfshark will defeat bandwidth throttling. That is where an internet provider slows down (or subsequently speeds up) the user’s connection to limit network congestion and avoid server crashes. Sometimes, however, a non-premium (free) VPN service uses throttling to give paying customers head of the net privileges. Another way free VPN services can slow down an internet connection is through loading ads in the background. To stay ‘free’ those services must earn ad revenue. As those ads load in the background on your browser and popup, the experience can be altogether unpleasant. Premium VPNs come ad-free. Besides slowing speed, the ads
themselves can be vectors for adware, malware, viruses, and bots. Some free services
actually install trackers that follow the user around the web. That
surveillance is how a user can visit an automobile sales website in the morning
and have a batch of car sales ads all over the browser in the afternoon. While all VPNs are not equal,
they do have certain features in common: *This protection may not be wholly applicable to every free VPN service. According to this article by Anthony Spadafora, “security researchers have discovered that several (top free VPNs)…contain critical vulnerabilities.” For example, one app SuperVPN Free VPN was removed from the Google Play Store after over 100 million downloads. That free product exposed users to man-in-the-middle attacks. A secure, premium VPN stands
between the internet user and a hacker to protect online privacy through
location masking. A man-in-the-middle attack can occur live when the user logs
into an unsecured wifi hotspot. The hacker actually gets ‘in the middle’ of a transaction between two parties on the web. The MITM impersonates someone on either side of the transaction and accesses information they are exchanging. During a live session a MITM would use a fake (or rogue) wifi network. Once the victim is in, the bogus network begins gathering credentials and personal data. MITMs employ the following
means to hijack the user’s connection: Just as cyber-attacks are on
the rise worldwide, South Africa experienced just over a 12% increase in 2019
over the previous year. Here are three examples: 1. This SC UK Media web article highlights a disturbing data breach at one South African telecommunications company, Conor ICT. Significantly, the data that was exposed included “daily logs of user activity by customers of ISPs using web filtering software built by that company”. The compromised database “had the details of all internet traffic of the users along with their personal identification data. Alarmingly, the data base was “completely unsecured and unencrypted”. It didn’t even require a forced entry. The breached database showed
details of activity logs during two months from customers of many ISPs,
compromising a whopping 890GB of data and over a million records. 2. The City of Johannesburg, according to this online web article, experienced a Ransomware attack in October 2019. Hackers demanded a $37,000 payment, which the city refused to pay. As of the date of the article, the city’s response team was “making good progress” in the recovery of the lost data. 3. Garmin South Africa, a shopping portal, experienced a data breach that compromised customers’ payment cards as well as essential personal information for shopping on line. Garmin took down the shopping portal and urged customers to monitor their payment records and “”the bank in case of any unauthorised transactions”. Of course, a VPN cannot protect
individual customers against data breaches. On the other hand, customers whose
identities are already masked by a VPN are protected against secondary assaults
by cyber criminals who seek to leverage the compromised data. In addition to guaranteeing
online privacy and anonymity, premium VPNs like Surfshark offer the following
advantages: Blocking government controls and censorship South Africa has a new and
controversial internet censorship law, which according to this BusinesssTech piece attaches criminal
penalties for engaging in certain prohibited activities on line. Log into a
South African VPN to bypass those prohibitions, but be cognizant and respectful
of South African laws and customs. Bypassing geo-blocking Some country restrictions
involving copyrights, etc., require online streaming services like Netflix to
block access from out-of-area users. As those services attempt to block outside
VPNs, the best premium VPN providers like Surfshark hop from location to
location to change the server IP address. Helping online shoppers Some online shopping
services—Amazon and Staples, for example—post different prices based on the
geographic location of the shoppers. Those price differentials can be over
165%. Likewise, other online retailers may block shoppers from other countries
based on IP addresses. With geo-blocking the
prospective buyer might be prevented from completing an online order, or the
vendor might deny shipment to a foreign address. The typical practice is to
shop different prices based on the user’s login location. For example, a user
logging in from an IP address in an affluent location like Beverly Hills,
California, will be directed to a high-end site with premium prices. The foregoing differential
pricing practices are also employed by airlines, ticketing companies,
automobile rental agencies, and hotels. For example, from different IP
locations while shopping for an airline ticket, the customer could see a
variety of ticket prices for the same trip. Smart travelers should log into a
VPN server at the flight destination and do wise comparison shopping. Finally, there is the legal, but rather shady practice of ‘price steering’. This is where shopping websites look at each user’s online search history and personalise their prices accordingly. They shunt the user to sites where there are higher prices for the same items available elsewhere at lower prices. Caution: Going on line with or
without a VPN should be with the backup of anti-malware protection and a solid
password strategy. That strategy should be accompanied by file and hard drive
encryption and accessing secure websites that begin with “HTTPS.” In addition to reliable malware
detection tools, a VPN provides an additional mobile shield. It hides the
user’s location and encrypts the connection between the device and the VPN
server. So, for a few dollars a month, the user can take advantage of premium
VPN services and the added security that free VPNs don’t always offer. To wit: A premium VPN in South Africa
can boost internet speed and downloads. Free VPNs, on the other hand,
frequently come with ads that load in the background and slow performance.
Those ads could also be contaminated with trackers, bots, and other malware. A VPN provides an encrypted,
secure connection free from outside interception and surveillance. It is the
main line of defense against man-in-the-middle attacks, which employ a variety
of tactics to hijack the victim’s connection. South Africa has been the
target of cyber-attacks and data breaches. Security consciousness as well as
taking advantage of the benefits of a South African VPN are essential
ingredients to online safety. Avoid potential security problems of many free VPNs. A premium South African VPN like Surfshark is the best choice. It offers leak-proof protection and top-grade encryption. A no-logs policy guarantees that the user cannot be tracked, since there is never any record of the user’s online activity. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.