[PARTNER CONTENT] A new player has entered the sports content market with the launch today of the Africa Sports Channel (ASC), the continent’s first subscription sports on demand audio platform. A joint venture between the Arena
Holdings group and African media players, Bassfin Content Inc, ASC will provide
consumers across South Africa and the rest of the African continent with a
selection of exclusive live and on-demand audio sports content, on their mobile
devices. Subscribers in South Africa will be able to listen to official live
match commentaries from the coveted English Premier League (EPL). “Our investment into the establishment of
the Africa Sports Channel is a step into a future where consumers will
increasingly consume their sports content on their mobile devices and on
multiple platforms and is in line with our ambitions to play an increasingly
influential role in the African media landscape,” said Arena Holdings chairman,
Tshepo Mahloele. In partnership with the world’s biggest
sports radio station, talkSPORT, Africa Sports Channel has acquired the audio
rights to the EPL and starting this weekend will deliver all 380 games of the
world’s biggest league live – featuring the African continent’s biggest stars –
and with expert analysis from the likes of Trevor Sinclair, Darren Bent, Stuart
Pearce and Ally McCoist. Fans will have the choice to listen to every one of
their team’s games in 2020-2021! ASC kicks off with a bang today with the launch of an exclusive new show  ‘The Chief’, which will see former Bafana Bafana, Kaizer Chiefs and Leeds United legend Lucas Radebe bringing his unique EPL insights to consumers weekly, following Leed’s return to the English top flight after 16 years. Radebe, the first African to captain an English Premier League side, today previews Leeds United’s mouth-watering opening EPL fixture away at Anfield against defending English Premiership champions, Liverpool, and of course, ‘Lucas Raddibby’ as he’s known in Yorkshire (sic) backs ‘The Whites’ to spring a big upset this weekend. “I am really happy and excited that we
will be sharing with the fans the story of the return of Leeds United to the
EPL through this show on the Africa Sports Channel. I am delighted that we are
talking about the rise of Leeds United once again. This is a club close to my
heart and I am looking forward to following the Leeds season step by step and
seeing how yet another dramatic EPL campaign will unfold,” said Radebe. Created in celebration of all sporting codes, the players and the fans, Africa Sports Channel will curate, analyse and publish African sports stars’ continued rise on the world stage with bespoke content for broadcast, online, on social media and on your phone. Selected ASC content will also be
available on the likes of the Sunday Times, Sowetan, Business Day, Financial
Mail and TimesLIVE platforms in the Arena stable. ASC will tap into the wealth of sporting
knowledge and expertise in Arena’s ranks and will feature topical podcasts from
many of the group’s well-known sportswriters. One of the continent’s top sports
journalists, Bareng Batho Kortjaas, will share his razor sharp sporting
knowledge and hard-hitting analysis with his 
‘BBK, Unleashed’ show, unleashing all the hot button topics in African
sport. London-based South African CNN
journalist, Zayn Nabbi’s ‘On the Whistle’ podcast will also make its debut on
the Africa Sports Channel this week, with an entertaining interview with
charismatic former Liverpool and Zimbabwe goalkeeping legend, Bruce Grobbelaar. “Sport has always been one of the staples in the Arena group’s content offering and with the launch of the Africa Sports Channel we commit to continuing to provide quality sports content to our loyal readers and consumers and to growing the group’s editorial and commercial sports portfolio,” said Lyndon Barends, Arena’s chief of strategy. Africa Sports Channel will focus on the
production of unique content for South African audiences, but is also in
advanced discussions with mobile networks 
and content rights holders to aggregate quality African sports content
that will appeal to continental sports fans. In terms of mobile access to sports
audio, there is no turning back! The action is live now: Africasportschannel.com Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.