The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa entered lockdown, businesses closed across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s BIG move: Government partners with private sector and NGOs to curb fake news during COVID-19 Government has ramped up its capacity to monitor
and respond to misinformation and fake news during this period of
Covid-19 national pandemic and beyond. A hi-tech monitoring and evaluation process has
been put in place to assess complaints and reports from the media, the public
and other sectors of society, with the ability to take down fake news items on
a range of platforms and submit cases to the SAPS for investigation and
prosecution. This solution is the result of a collaboration
between the Department, the Government Communication & Information System,
Media Monitoring Africa and the CovidComms volunteer communication network. It
forms part of the work of a special Ministerial Task Team established by the
Department of Communications & Digital Technologies, which also includes
representatives from ICASA, Film & Publications Board, ZADna, mobile phone
companies and other key players in the ICT sector, including platform owners. “We are stepping up our campaign against digital
misinformation, particularly in relation to Covid-19 and related actions such
as the national lockdown,” said Acting Minister of Communications Jackson
Mthembu. “We
also need to remind South Africans that spreading fake news or disinformation
about Covid-19 is a punishable offence. Arrests have already been made, and
they will continue if people persist in spreading fake news,” Mthembu added. Once fake news items or social media posts have
been identified, platform owners are notified to bring down the posts. Electronic
Communications Services Licensees, including over-the-top media service
providers and internet service providers that are in the service of providing
linear and non-linear services, will then have the responsibility to remove
fake news from their platforms with immediate effect. The following facilities have been set up for
people to send their complaints: The SANEF safety guide for journalists is here. People moves New director for Atmosphere Communications Atmosphere Communications has appointed Bukelwa Monqo as a director to its board with effect from 1 April 2020. Monqo has been with the agency’s Cape Town office for almost a decade and will also head up Atmosphere’s empowerment trust, Zebra Horse Holdings. “Bukelwa is a true leader and while at Atmosphere, she has led blue-chip clients such as Capitec Bank and Santam and has implemented award-winning campaigns for our clients such as Siemens, Sanlam and ghd to mention a few. She has a proven track record as a team leader and a commitment to client service excellence,” said Nicola Nel, managing director and founder of Atmosphere Communications. “I am excited to be part of the generation that redefines the industry and rewrites the playbook,” said Monqo. “My vision is to continue to foster the strong company culture Atmosphere has built over the past 18 years.” Table Mountain Cableway appoints new brand manager As one of the Seven Wonders of the Natural World, Table Mountain is ranked as the leading tourist attraction in Africa. “The success of our company relies solely on the capabilities, hard work and dedication of our committed staff members,” said Wahida Parker, the managing director of TMACC. “To ensure that we continue building on our excellent track record, I am very excited to welcome our new executive brand manager, Giselle Esau, as a member of  our team.” Esau entered the world of marketing over eight years ago, specialising within the e-commerce industry. Having shifted her career to focus on the tourism industry, she aims to bring greater global recognition to TMACC by elevating the status of the iconic landmark. Business moves GNI launches global Journalism Emergency Relief
Fund for local news publishers The Google News Initiative has
launched a Journalism Emergency Relief Fund to deliver
urgent aid to thousands of small, medium and local news publishers
globally. The funding is open to news
organisations producing original news for local communities during this time of
crisis, and will range from the low thousands of dollars for small hyper-local
newsrooms to low tens of thousands for larger newsrooms, with variations per
region. Starting Tuesday 14 April,
publishers everywhere can apply for funds via a simple application form.
Applications will close on Wednesday 29 April 2020 at 11:59 p.m. Pacific
Time. “We’ve made this as streamlined
as possible to ensure we get help to eligible publishers all over the world. At
the end of the process, we’ll announce who has received funding and how
publishers are spending the money,” said Richard Gingras, VP, News,
Google. Recognising that covering the
coronavirus pandemic can take its toll on reporters on the front line,
Google.org is giving $1 million collectively to the International Centre for Journalists, which plans
to provide immediate resources to support reporters globally, and the Columbia
Journalism School’s Dart Center for
Journalism and Trauma, which is helping journalists exposed to
traumatic events experienced during the crisis. This news builds on other efforts Google has made to support the
industry and connect people to quality information at this time of
need. “We believe it is important to do
what we can to alleviate the financial pressures on newsrooms, and will
continue to look at other ways to help with more to announce soon,” Gingras added. Covid-19 Chronicles: New
online show keeps South Africa informed and updated Caxton CTP, which has a total audience of 8.5 million people and 108 print publications ranging from premium news to lifestyle, and includes the Local News Network, an online network of 66 local news websites averaging approximately 6.7 million users per month, has launched Covid-19 Chronicles. It’s a daily 10-minute show streamed online so that everyone with access to the internet – even those with feature phones – can stay well-informed as the crisis unfolds in our country. With over 300 qualified and dedicated journalists
countrywide as well as an experienced international award-winning team of
television news producers, Caxton CTP is ensuring that the news aired on Covid-19
Chronicles is factually sound and aligned with the journalistic ethos. You can find the Covid-19 Chronicles within
Spectrum, a free local video platform that allows visitors to watch video
content on any device, at a fraction of the bandwidth of other video platforms. “We are doing our best to reach all citizens of
South Africa by empowering them with relevant and reliable information related
to the pandemic and asking our fellow South African brands to stand by us and support
this initiative with sponsorship packages,” Caxton said in a press release. “As
a news company, our first objective is to inform the public and so this project
is not for commercial gain, but rather to help fund the continued sharing of
factual news. For every sponsorship package sold, R5000 will go to the
healthcare workers who are on the frontline of the fight against Covid-19. To watch the show, visit any one of the LNN
websites, or //spectrum.tysflo.io/.
To contact our media team, email info@hivedigital.media Gardening
has not stopped Lonehill Media like many other media houses have
been severely impacted by the national lockdown especially print media. It was unable to print the May issue, and this
necessitated out of the box thinking to not only keep its title brands top of
mind but also generate some advertising revenue. With this in mind, the company has created a free
to download gardening guide supported by daily videos on its YouTube channel
for every day of the Lockdown. Introducing The Gardener’s Survival Guide, a
special digital magazine brought to you by The Gardener Magazine to smooth the
waters in these troubled times. The Gardener’s Survival Guide is an 84-page
digital magazine that can be downloaded at no charge from our website here and the YouTube
series is here. France 24 and Radio
France Internationale swing into action to keep informing in
Africa With a large
following in Sub-Saharan Africa, notably in the French-speaking part of the
continent, France Médias Monde’s media outlets France
24 and Radio France Internationale (RFI) have kept informing its African
audience on the coronavirus crisis. Several magazines and reports
dedicated to the pandemic are produced by the correspondents
in Africa, as well as many interviews with Heads of States to discuss
the crisis. The
programming schedules and digital offers have been adapted to focus on
news and interactivity with the multilingual audience on the continent.
France 24 and RFI are indeed available in English and French, and the
radio station also broadcasts in Hausa, Swahili, Mandika,
Fula and Portuguese. With 23.4
million visits on their social media and websites in
March, France 24 and RFI have doubled their traffic coming from the
continent. Moreover, the media outlets have decided to offer advertising
spaces to health organisations, which share prevention messages to fight
the virus in Africa. Many initiatives brought by the RFI Clubs and the network
of partner radio stations contribute to raise awareness on
Covid-19. France 24
and RFI are also mobilized to ensure academic continuity during the lockdown
and develop tools designed to help African students and their
parents. Making
moves 1st
for Women crowdfund for nurses fighting #Covid19SA, donate R500k as project
launches 1st for Women Insurance has launched a
crowdfunding campaign to support nurses on the frontline of Covid-19,
partnering with Gift of the Givers and Vula Mobile. As Covid-19 continues to spread and rise in South
Africa, experts are concerned that the virus could disproportionately impact
women. Globally, women make up 70% of the health and social sectors and
according to the World Health Organisation, in Africa, 65% of
nurses are women. It’s with this in mind that 1st for Women
Insurance and donations based crowdfunding platform, BackaBuddy have teamed up
with Gift of the Givers and Vula Mobile to create a dedicated online
crowdfunding campaign for nurses on the frontlines. Those that do so much for
so many and who are working tirelessly at the coalface to fight the pandemic. According to Robyn Farrell, CEO of 1st for Women
Insurance, “With Nurse Insure, we surveyed nurses from across the country to
ask about their immediate needs. The majority said psychosocial support as well
as the provision of protective gear.” SuperSport to showcase the greatest sports movies
of all time Show me the money!” Yes,
the famous line from Oscar award-winning movie Jerry Maguire is coming to
SuperSport’s screens this week, as the sports broadcaster broadcasts an epic
line-up of the greatest sports movies of all time starting this Friday and
running every evening at 8.30pm on SuperSport 1. The opening film,
starring Cuba Gooding jnr and Tom Cruise, will kick off the movie fest, which
will run daily for 60 days. The 8.30pm slot will be
a daily sports movie feature, with Jerry Maguire to be followed by Senna
(Saturday), Any Given Sunday (Sunday), Rocky 1-5 (next Monday to Friday) and
Invictus (next Saturday). The titles range across
a multitude of sports, from rugby to boxing, from baseball to soccer and
cycling and more. There are serious movies (Cinderella Man, Million Dollar Arm)
and slapstick (The Waterboy, Happy Gilmore), Oscar winners (The Colour of
Money, Jerry Maguire) and tear-jerkers (Rudy, Rocky) among them. “We’ve negotiated with
all the major studios to bring viewers this incredible line-up,” said Gideon
Khobane, chief executive of SuperSport. “There really is something here for
everyone, many of them classics with lines and scenes that resonate as strongly
as ever.” The movies will also be
available on DStv’s Catch Up service. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.