The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa entered lockdown, businesses closed across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s BIG move: Trio of
broadcasters commit $50m of advertising inventory to promote
vital public health messages to over 800 million people Three of the world’s biggest international
broadcasters have come together to donate free airtime to public health bodies
for the promotion of messages to combat the global coronavirus health
crisis. BBC Global News, CNN International and Euronews
have committed combined inventory worth up to $50 million. This is available to
major multilateral organisations and national health ministries whose aim is to
communicate information to help protect citizens and stop the spread of the
virus. This is the first time that the three
broadcasters have come together for a joint initiative, signalling how
important it is to them to play their part in the worldwide effort to
bring vital health information to people across the globe. They are
encouraging other publishers and platforms to replicate the model in order to
help spread the message even more widely. Demand for trusted news has been unprecedented in
recent weeks and, together, the three broadcasters reach over 800m* people,
ensuring that important public health advice can reach vast populations around
the world at a time of global crisis. Campaigns running via this scheme will be across
TV and digital platforms, with the ability to target messages to reach
audiences in specific regions. The World Health Organisation – the global leader
in authoritative health information and guidance – is the first body to take up
the offer. Its initial campaign will focus on seven steps to prevent the
spread of the virus and will run across all three broadcasters.  Other
public health bodies are invited to contact the broadcasters by emailing internationalsales@bbc.com, cnnicmarketing@turner.com
and sales@euronews.com. People moves Weber Shandwick has announced the appointment of
Ipelegeng (Ipi) Thibedi as the new CEO of its African operations. Weber
Shandwick Africa, with offices in Johannesburg and Nairobi and more than 13
partners in Africa, is a growing network within the firm’s EMEA region, serving
clients across a range of practice areas. Based in Johannesburg, Thibedi will lead in developing business and further strengthening multi-market client relationships in Africa, and help manage and expand Weber Shandwick’s growing network across the regional operation. She will report to Weber Shandwick EMEA COO, Jonas Palmqvist. As South Africa moves ahead to becoming a major player in the gig economy, challenges need to be addressed when it comes to the telecommunications industry that will enable this vision and put the country on the global map. Mobax has signalled its intention to become a major role player in the movement towards addressing these challenges as Vuyani Jarana joins as shareholder and the group chairperson to realise this vision. Jarana will bring strong industry experience to the table having spent many years in strategic C-level positions at Vodacom (COO and Chief Officer of the Enterprise Business Unit) and SAA (Group CEO). Business moves Telkom Group South Africa has awarded Avatar Agency its public relations account across the BCX and Openserve brands. The account will be serviced by Avatar PR, the public relations agency within the Avatar Agency Group. Avatar PR received three Certificates of Excellence at the SABRE Africa Awards held last week. “The partnership with BCX and Openserve really enables us to showcase the strength of our different businesses within the Group. We are bringing together a suite of experts for this work to ensure the correct mix of skills that will help businesses stay resilient in challenging operating conditions. We look forward to pushing the boundaries and implementing opportunities that will increase the two brand’s Share of Voice,” said Zibusiso Mkhwanazi, Avatar Agency Group CEO. Avatar will help BCX and Openserve connect with customers, suppliers and partners that help shape the digital future of South Africa. “We were looking for a highly creative agency to partner with us, one that can efficiently use powerful storytelling and help us build a targeted strategy to reach our B2B audience. We called, and we’re glad Avatar answered,” added Mooketsi Mocumi, executive group communications at Telkom South Africa. Multimedia LIVE
– the producer of multimedia content for Arena Holdings’ online titles TimesLIVE, SowetanLIVE, BusinessLIVE,
DispatchLIVE, HeraldLIVE, Sunday Times and Times Select – this week surpassed the 100 000 subscriber
milestone on its YouTube channel. “While we’ve experienced consistent growth of the
channel over a sustained period, our focus on the production of  smart and
relevant COVID-19 content has resulted in an uptick in subscriptions as South
Africans look to stay informed about the coronavirus situation during lockdown,”
said Scott Peter Smith, head of multimedia at Arena Holdings. The content produced by Multimedia LIVE enjoys consistent viewership in the tens of
thousands, with videos like ‘Under
the microscope: Here’s what the coronavirus looks like’ racking up
more than 360 000 views. The vast majority of the Multimedia LIVE audience is South African, with a relatively
even split between male and female viewers between 25 to 34 years old. Besides video, Multimedia LIVE is also working to upscale podcast offerings and develop shows with the right
voices and personalities. Daily highlights compilations of content submitted in support of #UnitedApartSA – an initiative that allows South Africans to share their ‘life in lockdown’ stories – can also be viewed on the Multimedia LIVE YouTube channel. Reputation Matters have launched
a free ebook outlining 40 tips
and tricks to manage your reputation and communication during the lockdown. The
specialist team has compiled this practical guide based on their extensive
knowledge and experience that they have gained over the last 15 years. “At Reputation Matters we believe in growing
businesses and growing people. We build businesses that people want to do
business with,” said founder and managing director, Regine le Roux. “The team have been absolutely amazing in turning this ebook around in a week,” she added. ‘Your Reputation Matters, 40 tips and tricks too look after your reputation during lockdown’, is an easy reference book and is aimed at guiding people on how to manage their reputation and communication during a crisis, such as this current COVID-19 lockdown situation. If you would like a free copy of the ebook register for it here. Microsoft Word – iiDENTIFii – IDC Final.docx The Industrial Development Corporation assessed the market locally and abroad for the top suppliers of a financial crime mitigation solution, and local identity authentication specialists, iiDENTIFii, came out on top. The crisis the South African government is currently facing is beyond a medical disaster, it affects all sectors of operation. This multifaceted pandemic affects online security in a way that will transform the sphere forever. In the face of such adversity, local identity authentication company, iiDENTIFii, has received the tender to supply, implement, support and maintain a financial crime mitigation solution for the Industrial Development Corporation (IDC). “It’s an incredible honour to partner with IDC to ensure that this country’s key sectors and companies obtain
the economic support they require during this difficult pandemic,” said Gur Geva, Co-CEO of iiDENTIFii. The benefits of IDC choosing iiDENTIFii are not limited to their leading-edge technology, but also the
geographical proximity – through close engagement and tier 1 support. iiDENTIFii is built by a local team with a deep understanding of the African biometric terrain, with technology
that is specifically built for South Africa, Africa and emerging markets after being proven in Europe, Asia and
North America. As technology advances, the opportunities for fraud
increases exponentially as fraudsters become more sophisticated in their
actions. In the battle against fraud, speed and the use of reliable
verification data are key determinants of success. The Southern African Fraud Prevention Service (SAFPS)
has entered into an agreement with OneVault to make use of its LumenVox Passive
Voice Biometric & Fraud Scanner Authentication Platform which will take the
fight to fraudsters to a higher level, and make sure that the public has an
extra protection in the fight against fraud. SAFPS have made significant
investment into their technology infrastructure and have appointed Pivotal Data
to provide them with a fully hosted, state of the art, contact centre
technology that will allow them to provide their members with enhanced services
and solutions. Livewell rebrands,
highlighting the need for specialised dementia care in South Africa
Specialised dementia care is still largely underrepresented in South Africa,
with Livewell being one of the few dedicated facilities leading the way. “The new Livewell brand
represents the birth of our new operating level as we strive to add value and
touch the lives within our reach.  Whilst
we continue to offer our residents a luxurious surrounding in our immaculate
estates, we want families to understand the importance of having trained and
skilled dementia carers looking after their loved ones” saidTanya Lombard,
Managing Director at Livewell. There are almost 10 million
new cases of dementia every year around the world, couple this with a
generation that is projected to live longer than any other before and we have a
dire need to provide essential care tailored to cognitive disease treatment. “Our new website will
continue to share the valuable information you have come to expect, as well as
our weekly blog, with our aim being to make our website your one-stop dementia
care resource platform for accurate information,” said Lombard. “New staff
stories and films featured on the rebranded website offer a glimpse into the
different personalities we have at Livewell and reflect the like-mindedness and
like-heartedness of the people we have on our team, their passion for caring
and the special bonds they form with the residents are absolutely evident.” SA business school mobilises digital innovation to
help fight COVID-19 Regent Business School, a member of Honoris United Universities, has heeded the SOS call from healthcare professionals fighting COVID-19 across South Africa for Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). The business school has mobilised its innovation hubs, iLeadLABs, in Durban, Johannesburg, Pretoria and Cape Town to produce its reusable protective face shields and splash protection masks using 3-D printed parts which will be distributed, at no cost, to public healthcare facilities. “As a socially
responsible organisation, we take an agile and proactive approach against local
and global concerns, so when government appealed for help to support its
medical fraternity with critical protective gear, we were able to respond
quickly and decisively,” said Dr Ahmed Shaikh, managing director. “The PPE
shortage is a global one. We are thankful to be in a position to mobilise all
of our innovation incubators or iLeadLABs across the country to do our bit to
make a difference. We are fully committed to this for the long-run.” PPE
is critical to protect healthcare professionals against contracting the novel
Coronavirus and plays a crucial role in helping turn the tide of the pandemic.
The shields and masks will be donated to those testing and treating members of
the public for COVID-19. As the demand for protective gear increases amidst
rising infections, the business school has embraced the long-term challenge
with a comprehensive three-phase plan. The
school has currently 3D printed and assembled 200 PPE and is aiming to produce
at least 500 PPE by the end of the month. World
Out of Home Organisation Congress re-scheduled for May
2021 in Toronto The
World Out of Home Organisation annual Congress, cancelled in 2020 because of
the Covid-19 outbreak, is re-scheduled for 2021 at the same venue, the Sheraton
Centre Toronto Hotel, 12-14 May 2021. Attendees
who booked for 2020 will be able to rollover their bookings for May 2021. “After the crushing disappointment of being
forced to cancel in 2020 we’re delighted to announce that we’ll be able to
gather in Toronto next year, in May as opposed to June,” said WOO executive director,
John Ellery. “Holding the event in May will also make it easier when re-scheduling
travel arrangements with many airlines as the new dates are within 12 months of
the 2020 event. “We’ve
been very fortunate in securing this venue once again, especially as travellers
and companies across the world are busy booking locations and venues now as the
world prepares to return to normal after the horrors of Covid-19. We were
determined to return to Canada whatever the obstacles, because of the excellent
facilities available there and the terrific support we are being afforded by
our gracious Canadian colleagues.” Making
moves Jacaranda FM launches GMA coronavirus support Jacaranda FM’s Breakfast with Martin Bester, in
partnership with LottoStar, has launched the first of the station’s initiatives
through GMA Coronavirus Support
to aid South African families in dire financial need during the COVID-19
crisis. R500 000 has been allocated to be shared
with families who are struggling to make ends meet due to the outbreak in an
initiative that forms part of Jacaranda FM’s Good Morning Angels feature. “Jacaranda FM has always been focused on making
sure that our listeners are first to know about any developing news story, but
we’ve never been ‘just about the news’,” said breakfast host, Martin Bester.
“Jacaranda FM’s Good Morning Angels leverages our listener base and gives us
the opportunity to go beyond the news and play a substantial role in
changing the stories you hear, see and read about for the better.” Making a difference is simple: Click through to www.jacarandafm.com,
head to the GMA Coronavirus Support page, click on the I Wish To Nominate
button on the and tell us about a family that you know who is having a hard
time earning an income during the national lockdown. Fill in your details and
those of the family you want to nominate, along with background about their
situation, then listen to Breakfast with Martin Bester from 6 to 9am, Elana
Afrika-Bredenkamp from 9 to 12, Alex Jay from 12 to 4 and Rian van Heerden from
4 to 7. In every show, Martin will be speaking to someone who we are helping. ViacomCBS
Networks Africa launches LAUNCHES #alonetogether campaign ViacomCBS Networks Africa is using its
powerful platforms to educate audiences on the importance of social distancing
as the world grapples with the devastating effects of COVID-19. The network’s
entertainment and youth brands led by MTV base, MTV and BET
Africa launched the #AloneTogether campaign which will be
informing, educating and entertaining millions of audiences to drive unity
through entertainment. A focus on mental health is a vital part of the effort,
underscoring that social distancing does not mean social isolation. “This really is an unprecedented time for our
viewers and we want them to know that they’re not alone,” said Monde Twala,
senior vice president and general manager at ViacomCBS Networks Africa. “We
have a unique opportunity to be a uniting force amongst our audiences and
talented artists across our channels. “The #AloneTogether campaign is
geared towards enabling the power of our platforms in supporting youth as they
navigate this current environment. We are committed to educating, informing and
entertaining our viewers with inspired content across all our channels and
digital platforms – #Sisonke.” SABC and DBE launch COVID-19 TV and radio
curriculum support programmes for learners The SABC and the Department of Basic
Education have launched a multi-media learner support initiative under the
banner: COVID-19 Learner Support aimed at limiting the impact of the lockdown
to the school calendar. The initiative is part of the broader efforts to
prevent a total loss of school year since the lockdown was announced by
President Cyril Ramaphosa as a measure to combat the spread of corona virus
known as COVID-19. The programme started tomorrow on 9 Aprile
and will broadcast across three SABC TV Channels and 13 Radio stations with
online support. The series will provide curriculum support lessons to learners
in Grades 10, 11 & 12 and Early Childhood Development (ECD). Some of the
subjects covered include Maths, Physical Sciences, English FAL, Life Sciences
and Accounting. A variety of African languages are also covered under the ECD
basket. Learners are encouraged to check their
local listings for the exact slots for radio. The SABC and the National
Department of Basic Education created the campaign to be the daily source of
information and the central shared hub for learner support. “We invite learners to take full advantage
of these resources as we believe they will assist them a great deal during this
lockdown period to catch up with their school work and better prepare for the
upcoming exams in the year,” sais SABC COO Ian Plaatjes. This multimedia initiative is supported by
an online YouTube channel. Jakes Gerwel Fellowship announces speakers
for second instalment of ‘Educating in Interesting Times’ Webinar series. In
response to the disruption to education in South Africa as a result of
Covid-19, the Jakes Gerwel Fellowship is hosting a weekly Webinar series
throughout April to discuss pressing challenges and resilience strategies in
basic education. The first instalment of the Webinar series‘Educating
in Interesting Times’ proved hugely successful, with nearly a thousand participants
from all over the country interacting with a distinguished panel of local and
international industry leaders. The discussion underscored the immense
challenge for parents and educators with little-to-no accessible technology or
connectivity – a topic that will be explored in detail when the series
continues this Thursday, 9 April from 10am. ‘Exploring Low-Tech Opportunities’ will see our panel of educational innovators unpack the critical issue of ensuring continuity across education in South Africa, and share their experiences on how to leverage low-or-no technology in a disrupted environment. Speakers will explore existing and potential solutions that can be deployed quickly, easily and broadly to low-resource areas to ascertain: What low-tech and no-tech strategies can be deployed to effectively support learning through this period? Confirmed
Speakers Khangelani Sibiya (KWV Tutoring), Zameka Lubelwana (Funda Wande), Ashley Visagie (Bottomup, Director), Wambura Kimunyu (CEO, Eneza Education) Register here. WATCH: The first instalment in the series: Keeping WhatsApp personal and private With billions of people unable to see their
friends and family in person due to COVID-19, people are relying on WhatsApp
more than ever to communicate. People are talking to doctors, teachers, and
isolated loved ones via WhatsApp during this crisis. That’s why all your
messages and calls on WhatsApp are end-to-end encrypted by default to give you
a secure place for your most personal conversations. Last year Facebook introduced users to the
concept of messages that have been forwarded many times. These messages are
labeled with double arrows to indicate they did not
originate from a close contact. In effect, these messages are less personal
compared to typical messages sent on WhatsApp. Now there’s a limit so that
these messages can only be forwarded to one chat at a time. In recent weeks, people have also used WhatsApp
to organise public moments of support for frontline
health workers. But there’s been a significant increase in the amount of
forwarding which users say can feel overwhelming and can contribute to the
spread of misinformation. You can learn more about these efforts, as well
as how to submit potential myths, hoaxes and rumors to fact
checking organizations, on our Coronavirus
Information Hub. Media
Alerts – a free local service to help journalists find relevant contacts Media Alerts is a free local service to help
journalists find relevant contacts or content for the stories they’re working
on, while giving PR professionals and industry experts an opportunity to
contribute their information, contacts or expertise to match the journalists’
requests. There’s no charge for the service and you can
simply take a look at www.mediaalerts.co.za and see if it works
for you. It’s designed for journalists who: Journalists using the service from across all
sorts of media titles, from Financial Mail and Forbes, to YFM and Woman &
Home. For the Diary Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.