The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa entered lockdown, businesses closed across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s
BIG move: The Future
of Media Conference has moved to 1 October 2020 Arena Events,
organisers of the Future of Media
Conference, have announced that the event has been postponed until 1 October
2020. It was initially scheduled to take place in Parktown, Johannesburg on 23
July. The Future of Media
Conference has been endorsed by WAN-IFRA, and is presented in partnership with
EziAds and Vodacom. The Future of Media Conference is directed towards the media, advertising and marketing sectors, where the paradigm shift that’s happening in the media environment as well as the way in which the industry needs to change as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic will be explored to ensure that each industry remains relevant and can thrive. The conference is set to attract the country’s leading marketing, media and advertising strategists as they engage on various aspects affecting the industry today. “In light of the current COVID-19 crisis, we’ve decided – in consultation with our partners – to move forward with the Future of Media Conference by postponing it for a few months,” said Taryn Westoby, head of Arena Events. “However, we are monitoring the situation closely and will follow the lead of the South African government. In the meantime, we recognise the need to keep the media and marketing industries engaged, which is why we’re setting up a series of free online digitised events.” The first
online digitised event  associated with the Future of Media series is scheduled for Wednesday, 29 April at
15h00 with international branding guru, Patrick Hanlon. With the challenges
presented by COVID-19 lockdowns globally, Hanlon will strip away “the fog” of
how to create meaningful brands that attract fans, community and customers,
by revealing a simple, easy to use methodology from his book Primal Branding in this one-time-only
online PRIMAL.LIVE x AFRICAevent. To register, click here. People moves MRF announces management changes The Marketing Research Foundation (MRF) appointed Johann Koster as CEO of the organisation. Koster will spearhead the MRF’s upcoming MAPS initiative and will work closely with existing and potential members. The MRF is an independent non-profit company, acting
as the custodian and repository of research expertise for marketers and their
advertising industry partners. Koster has a long and steady track record both with
the MRF and SAARFwhere amongst other duties, he oversaw SAARF’s
organisational repositioning and developed sustainable value propositions that
were needed at the time. “I’m extremely passionate about the research
industry and am especially looking forward to launching and updating the
industry on MAPS, the long-awaited products and brands replacement survey for
AMPS, soon,” he said. “We know that this comprehensive national product and
brand data research is long overdue to once again drive improved advertising
effectiveness and ROI.” Existing board members of the MRF are Virginia Hollis,
Brenda Koorneeff, Bruce Williamson, Immaculata Segoa and Celia Collins with
alternate representatives Anneen Dedekind, Nomsa Khanyile, Andile Kona and
Sharon Bergman. Business moves Caxton Local Newspapers temporarily suspends
printing of some papers Caxton has made the difficult decision to temporarily suspend the publication of the majority of its Gauteng newspapers for the remaining two weeks of the government mandated lockdown. All online properties will however continue undisrupted. Certain areas of Mpumalanga, KwaZulu-Natal and Limpopo will continue to print. “We had to make the very difficult call at the end
of last week after extensive deliberation by the board of directors,” said Gill
Randall, CEO of SPARK Media. “As a company, Caxton has been acutely aware of
the vital role played by local newspapers during these uncertain times, and
have tried everything in our power to ‘keep the lights’ on for as many of our
communities as possible.” Randall thanked advertisers and media owner partners
for their support thus far, and encouraged them to continue supporting the many
titles that would still publish until the end of April.” Managing director of Caxton Local Newspapers, Jaco
Koekemoer said while printing may have stopped, the group’s “72 digital
platforms are still focusing on covering hyper-local and national news”. He added that it was clear from the statistics that
readers rely on its platforms as a source of accurate information, “We have
seen unprecedented growth in traffic on our digital platforms, with over 10
million visitors and more than 20 million page views in March.” A detailed list of papers that will and will not be
available over the next two weeks can be found here. Hive Digital Media and NexusHub deliver access to premium inventory on gaming platform Glitched.Online Nexus Hub has launched a new online platform called Glitched for gamers and tech enthusiasts, which features detailed reviews on the latest video game releases, technology reviews and updates and all things nerd. The site also features segments for videos,
e-sports, Eclipse Gaming and a livestream called the 404 which aims to
bring the gaming community together. Nexus Hub, in collaboration with Hive Digital Media,
has made Glitched inventory accessible through Hive Digital Media’s
programmatic offering, Ignition SELL.
Through Ignition SELL, buyers can access desktop, mobile and video inventory
across the Caxton Network of Premium News & Lifestyle focused websites in a
premium, brand safe environment. The inventory is available through programmatic direct, open auction and private market place. Although only display inventory is available for now, the Hive Digital Team expects Outstream formats to be available on Glitched soon. With a host of loyal gaming and tech enthusiasts visiting the niche gaming platform, Glitched provides valuable targeting opportunities for programmatic buyers. ViacomCBS International Studios (VIS) has announced
the production of Balcony Stories, a slate of short-form content to celebrate
the positive and creative ways people are experiencing this complicated
situation. The short-form series, produced by VIS in collaboration with
Fremantle, leverages user-generated content from both audience and talent,
redefining the role of the users by transforming them into active storytellers
and the protagonists of their shows. Raffaele Annecchino, President of ViacomCBS
Networks EMEAA, said, “At ViacomCBS, we have always been committed to reaching
our audience everywhere and at any time. Now that we are living in this
unprecedented situation, more than ever, we need to stay connected and close to
our fans, helping them to stay positive. Balcony Stories was born with this
spirit. During these months, our eyes have opened up as well as our
imagination, our sense of humor, and the artist within us all. Sharing the fun
and emotional stories that we are all living can underline even more the fact
that we are still all together, reflecting the empathy, creativity, and
positive vibes from around the world. With Balcony Stories, we want to
celebrate this positive attitude.” It’s a go for live WWE – catch it
on SuperSport With WWE officially recognised by
Florida governor Ron DeSantis as an essential business, the show goes on this
week with three live performances coming to SuperSport. Three of the most popular staples
– Raw, SmackDown and NXT – will take place behind closed doors at the WWE
Performance Centre in Florida. Fans won’t be allowed in and employees must wear
face masks and get medically screened before they’re allowed to enter the
closed set. The recent WrestleMania event
took place under similar conditions and went off safely. This week’s live shows on SuperSport: MTV International & the MTV Staying Alive Foundation announce
short-form, digital mini-series The MTV Staying Alive Foundation, in partnership with the United Nations’ Every Woman Every Child Partnership and Unitaid: supporting innovation for global health, Viacom CBSAfrica, and MTV International have announced a 60-part mini-series of MTV Shuga to raise awareness in the global fight to flatten the COVID-19 curve. Produced remotely, the self-shot series will be written and directed by acclaimed writer, Tunde Aladese, and will be available for streaming and sharing across online platforms from the 20th of April 2020. Set in Kenya, Nigeria, South
Africa and Cote D’Ivoire during the height of the COVID-19 outbreak, MTV Shuga
Alone Together will depict every aspect of life during the pandemic over the
next three months. The relevant story will be told through video calls between
MTV Shuga characters, reflecting how social media has become the new form of
socialising during this era of lockdown, and reflect the changes in our lives
as lockdown changes across the months. In 2019, responding to the needs of its users, Samsung launched Samsung
Members, a platform for customers to be in direct contact with experts from the
brand and enjoy exclusive discounts, special promotions, raffles and tutorials,
among many other contents. In Community, experts, fans and other members of this app can create and
co-create content about different products to make the most of their functions.
In addition, contests will be generated, talking about the diverse and
fascinating interests of consumers and, above all, inviting the same community
to propose topics of conversation. Regarding this launch, Cambridge
Mokanyane, Chief Marketing Officer at Samsung South Africa said, “This launch
is intended to give added value to our consumers. Technology cuts across many
aspects of our lives and it is important to know how to fully capitalise on
what it can provide us in our day to day lives.” Making
moves Arena announces digitised events
line-up for the rest of April Earlier in April, Arena Events
announced that it would take its bespoke event series online, and has announced
the line-up for the rest of April. Most recently, Arena Events hosted the online announcement of The Radio Awards, which over the past 10 years has cemented itself as the leading platform to acknowledge excellence in South African radio. “Our success in these early online
events shows us that being associated with the country’s most respected news
titles brings unmatched benefits in terms of presenting topical content, with
the participation of leading experts,” said Taryn Westoby, head of Arena
Events.  “We have the right technology, with an experienced team, and
access to the most exclusive content to provide audiences with a worthwhile
online experience. For partners and sponsors who want to keep their profiles
visible during this disruptive time, we certainly believe we’ve provided an
early taste of what is possible.“ Here’s the April 2020 line-up For more information about partnering with a bespoke online event, please visit www.arenaevents.africa or contact Melissa de Agrela at deagrelam@arena.africa #WeAreFamily – Kfm 94.5 and LottoStar
to support families with a share of half-a-million rand As South Africans continue to stay home amid
mounting concerns about the spread of the novel
coronavirus (COVID-19), Kfm 94.5 and LottoStar are coming together to support
the K-fam, the station’s many listeners across the Cape. The national lockdown has
brought about many challenges and physical distancing has resulted in hardships
being faced by families in the Western Cape and beyond. To combat the financial
challenges many of the Kfm 94.5 listeners are facing, the station and LottoStar
have launched a new on-air campaign called, #WeAreFamily. “Through #WeAreFamily, Kfm 94.5 and LottoStar will be sharing
R500 000 with families across the Western Cape. If you’ve been affected by
the lockdown and unable to earn an income or play your bills, we are the family
you can call on,” commented LottoStar director, Tasoulla Hadjigeorgiou. “This is one of the
hardest times for us as a country and as a province. We are known for creating
life-changing moments for our listeners in partnership with LottoStar.
#WeAreFamily is an extension of this and our way of trying to ease some of the
difficulties our Kfm family are experiencing,” said Kfm 94.5 station manager, Stephen
Werner. Kfm
94.5 and LottoStar will help five families every day, for the next 2 weeks,
from 7am to 6pm. Listeners
can nominate a family in need by sharing their stories on Kfm 94.5 website: www.kfm.co.za . Discovery Rise supports Save The
Children South Africa with COVID-19 relief fund Discovery’s recently launched ‘RISE’
initiative, a global campaign focused on reducing inequality and supporting
empowerment around the world, has announced that in response to the pandemic,
it will be helping to drive donations to Save the Children South Africa’s local
COVID-19 relief fund. The funds will be allocated to useful resources like
food, essential items, sanitation and developing educative tools so that no
child is left behind. “At Discovery, we understand these
are unnerving times and are responding to this crisis as best we can through
the power and reach of our brand worldwide. Our Discovery RISE initiative,
which is focused on working with local organisations that address social
mobility through access to the most basic human needs, is the best platform for
us to do this. Our close partnership with Save the Children South Africa (SCSA)
will help drive donations to a local COVID-19 relief fund providing nutrition,
education, and healthcare to vulnerable families,” said Henry Windridge,
Discovery Networks Head of Brand for Middle East & Africa. Your donation will help to: Discovery’s global partnership with
Save the Children aims to support Visit the RISE website //discoveryrise.org/en-ZA/#covid and learn how you can make a difference by donating to Save the
Children. #FACEUPTOCOVID19 campaign provides cloth face masks
to SA’s most vulnerable In response to health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize’s call for all South Africans to wear cloth face masks to help flatten the COVID-19 curve, NGO Afrika Tikkun has launched the #FACEUPTOCOVID19 campaign. The campaign calls on all South Africans to join together to save lives and help protect the nation by stopping the spread of the virus. Afrika Tikkun is appealing to all citizens to ensure that everyone across the country has access to face masks. A R20 donation equals one mask. With over 2.5
million cases of coronavirus reported globally and almost 3 500 confirmed cases
in South Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa and his government have displayed
unparalleled leadership and acted swiftly to confront the pandemic. “There is
something we can all do – help make sure that everyone in our country has
access to a reusable, cloth face mask. By contributing to this initiative, and
wearing a mask yourself, you are no longer disempowered – you have the power to
do something. You have the power to FACE UP to COVID19 and make a difference by
saving lives and helping to stop the spread of the virus” said Precious Nala,
Afrika Tikkun marketing manager. For the
Diary: A whole lot of surveys How has Covid-19 affected your
business? Take this survey South
Africa is still in lockdown to help contain
the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. How has this affected your business?
How is Covid-19 affecting your staff, strategy, supply chain and other areas? Let your voice be heard by taking
part in the Biz Impact Survey, which aims to shed light on how small,
medium-sized and large businesses across SA are responding to the crisis. It
will take about 10 minutes to complete and all responses will be kept
confidential, aggregated and anonymous. Take the survey here. Take part in this year’s mobile marketing survey The  fifth
annual mobile marketing survey,
in partnership with the MMA, is open and we need your expertise and knowledge!
We ask for ten minutes of your time to provide your experience of the current
state of mobile marketing and advertising. In return, all respondents will receive a copy of the final report. Use this link to begin
our 2020 survey. You have until this Friday 24th
April to share your views. The effect of COVID-19 on your family, organisation and country – survey How have you been impacted by the COVID-19
lockdown? Do you feel that you, your company and country were sufficiently
prepared? Reputation specialists, Reputation Matters, are running a short
online survey to get insights into these questions to help people and entities
to be better prepared for future crisis situations. “As we all contend with an extended COVID-19 lock
down,  everyone is dealing with a new reality and new ‘normal’,” said
Chanell Kemp, reputation specialist at Reputation Matters. “The goal of the survey is to determine to which
extent individuals, organisations and countries have been affected by the
pandemic. The research also examines how prepared organisations were for the
current crisis situation, with specific focus on their communication
initiatives. The results will be collated and analysed by
mid-May and it will be presented back in a webinar series. Reputation Matters
focuses on building businesses that people want to do business with and by
conducting this research, organisations will be enabled to learn from the
current scenario and build up resilience for future crisis situations. Here is the survey link
to the survey. Four virtual digital marketing conferences added for 2020 The health, safety and wellbeing of our digital marketing community is our first concern in these unprecedented times. After careful consideration in light of the ongoing Coronavirus (COVID-19) developments and concerns worldwide, DigiMarCon has created a Virtual Digital Marketing Conference Series of 4 additional Events in 2020, including: Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.