The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa entered lockdown, businesses closed across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s BIG move: Avatar launches specialist Resilience Practice to help organisations steer business priorities post COVID-19 As businesses on the continent face challenges that
are unique to those faced by its global counterparts, Avatar Group has launched
its specialist practice, Resilience at
Avatar, to help leaders navigate these unprecedented times. In an Africa-first offering, the practice comes at
a crucial time when businesses are looking to develop tools and strategies for
recovery after the pandemic. “COVID-19 presents significant
challenges to people and organisations around the globe and the disruption
continues to evolve,” said Zibusiso Mkhwanazi, CEO of Avatar Group. “This
Practice builds on Avatar Group’s acumen in building brands and businesses, as
well as its proven creative ingenuity.” The practice will be led by chief strategy entrepreneur,
Mzamo Xala, as managing director who has a solid reputation and a formidable
track record in brand innovation and the business of marketing. He has led
Insights and Innovation projects for Unilever Africa and brought to life new
drinks as Innovation Manager at Diageo. “This practice exists to help leaders think
and act on resilience. We see this as a unique problem that requires a unique
approach. It necessitates creativity and innovation as businesses are faced
with challenges post the pandemic,” Xala said. In addition, the Practice will assist qualifying
entrepreneurs in South Africa by hosting free consultation sessions through
online engagements. “We know that entrepreneurs are the backbone of our
economy. As a proudly homegrown business ourselves, we would like to contribute
towards getting South Africa back on its feet,” ends Mkhwanazi. People moves Merissa Himraj joins GroupM executive committee A
pioneering strategist and exceptional leader, Merissa Himraj has served as the
chief strategy officer (CSO) of Wavemaker South Africa since early 2019. Now,
just over a year later, she has been appointed to the executive committee of
Wavemaker’s parent company, GroupM. Himraj
first joined Wavemaker South Africa in August 2014 as a business unit manager,
where she led the Vodacom account for five years. Her CSO appointment brought
with it the provision of strategic and solutions-driven oversight both
internally at Wavemaker and among its many clients. Himraj will continue to
hold this role as she takes on her GroupM responsibilities. “I am
still new to the GroupM team, so my short to medium-term goals involve
assessing where I can add value and driving synergistic projects that propel
GroupM’s agencies forward,” Himraj says. “In the long term, as always, I want
to do meaningful work that benefits the group and its clients, and offer
support to our internal teams in any way I can.” SABC sends condolences to Loyiso Lloyd Sitsheke’s family The South African Broadcasting Corporation has sent
its heartfelt condolences to the Sitsheke family, following the passing of
Loyiso Lloyd Sitsheke. Sitsheke was born in Qumbu, a town in the Eastern
Cape and commenced his radio career at Unitra community radio also
known as UCR-FM in 1996, before joining the SABC. Affectionately known as Bra Llyod, he was one of
Umhlobo Wenene FM’s talented sport personalities. He presented various sports
shows including the sports bulletins and headlines on the station’s afternoon
drive show Masigoduke and Ezemidlalo sports show, from 19h00 to
20h00, Mondays and Fridays. He also presented Ezemidlalo Nolonwabo, a very popular show with Umhlobo Wenene FM listeners and the nation at large on Saturday mornings from 07h00 to 09h00. Among his notable radio career highlights was growing his weekend show from 780 000 listeners to the latest figure of 1.8 million listeners. The station and its listeners will remember him for
his great ideas, remarkable knowledge and warm personality. Pulpit Media
staffers take on industry chairs Kedibone Rayner, programme manager of African Languages
at Pulpit Media, has been appointed vice chairperson of the Association of
Christian Media. Wilma van Schalkwyk, senior manager of radio, has been
announced as chairperson of the National Association of Broadcasters’ community
radio committee. Business moves M&C Saatchi Abel recognised in Fast Company’s
2020 World Changing Ideas Global Awards A simple idea born on the streets
of Cape Town has catapulted a South African ad agency into the finals of a
global competition. M&C SAATCHI ABEL’s The Street Store, a Force-for-Good
Initiative was named a finalist in theBest World Changing Idea EMEA
Region and Creativity categories in Fast Company’s World Changing
Ideas 2020 global awards as well as recognised in 4 other categories. Fast Company’s World
Changing Ideas awards honoured the businesses, policies, projects, and concepts
from different industries around the world that are making a positive change on
a broad range of issues from climate crisis, social injustice, or economic
inequality. The Street Store bridges the gap between the
haves and have-nots, providing the homeless with the dignity of choosing their
own clothes instead of being on the receiving end of often-unwanted
hand-me-downs. Mike Abel, Founding Partner and CEO of M&C
SAATCHI ABEL says that South Africa has many people who want to help but often
don’t know where or how. “Because of this, we conceptualised The Street
Store concept in 2014. The world’s first rent-free, premises-free, pop-up
clothing store for homeless people.” Moneyweb
launches new breakfast podcast Moneyweb, from Monday [4 May], will bring the latest in business and financial news in a new morning podcast: Moneyweb NOW with Simon Brown. The show will offer the latest in business,
trading and company news to best prepare listeners for the day ahead. It will
be live-streamed via the Moneyweb website and mobile app between 06h30 and
06h50. Don’t worry if you miss it, the podcast will be available immediately
afterwards to listen to on your phone or computer, totally free. Simon Brown is prominently known across various
business platforms in his capacity as an investor, trader and founder of the
financial educational platform Just One Lap. Brown is passionate about helping people understand money in all its aspects, from saving to investing and trading. “This is an exciting new offering and a first for South Africa. Moneyweb NOW with Simon Brown will be the only comprehensive business radio show in the morning.  We aim to have the podcast downloaded onto your phone before 07h00, to allow subscribers to listen to it on their way to work,” says Ryk van Niekerk, editor of Moneyweb. Central Media Group survey Free State listeners Radio, digital and print media are playing an important role in the COVID-19
response. New research shows between 80% and 90% of people consume news and
entertainment for an average of almost 24 hours during a typical week. Central Media Group, with subsidiary brands and products such as OFM,
Bloemfontein Courant, and Get It Bloemfontein, along with their webpages and
social media platforms, has embraced the changes in consumption, seeing between
10% and 14% rise in engagement levels, from February 2020 to April 2020. Kantar
completed a research study, which indicated that terrestrial radio listenership
is up 30%. In the research study of 1 545 respondents, the company found that radio
listening was up, and that engagement with reliable news sources was also on
the rise, including OFM news pages on, and Bloemfontein Courant news page. Twelve percent of respondents in the Central Media study indicated that
during this lockdown period, that they were reading more local newspapers, 51%
are engaged with more social media, and collectively, indicated that they were
spending more time on trusted Central South African media webpages or social
media channels. Asked where they were getting reliable information from about COVID-19 during the lockdown, 39% of respondents indicated that they relied on radio, 47% of respondents indicated they relied on local news websites, and 14% said that they relied on local newspapers, while 37% relied on local media social pages. How technology is assisting retailers to encourage social distancing Since mid-March the South African government has
been advocating social distancing to reduce the spread of COVID-19 and, as a
result, flatten the curve of infection. As the public are only allowed to leave
their homes to obtain medical assistance, or purchase medicines or groceries,
the onus has been placed on retailers to step up and enforce the 1-metre social
distancing rules within their stores to ensure the safety of their staff and
customers. An area that retailers are focusing on is their
queueing system, where close contact is most problematic, and they’re turning
to technology to assist with social distancing rules. One retailer using
technology to socially distance their customers is Clicks. They initially implemented a Virtual Queue
solution a couple of years ago to allow their customers to check in, maintain
their place in line, and be notified when it’s their turn for service.
Customers can also opt in for an SMS notification that lets them know when it
is their turn in the queue. Ultimately, removing the need for customers to
physically stand in a queue. Over the last couple of years, the Virtual Queue
solution has been implemented in more than 280 Clicks Pharmacies in South
Africa, which includes their top stores such as the V&A Waterfront, Gardens
Centre and Canal Walk, as well as in stores in Swaziland. “By employing virtual queuing, retailers are in a
position to seamlessly introduce the new social distancing measures, which some
experts believe will need to be in place for the next couple of years. In this
way, solutions like virtual queueing may become the norm for retailers and
shoppers,” said Scott Matthews, head of Moving Tactics Retail Analytics. Tribeca wins the LEGO® South Africa account Tribeca Public Relations (Tribeca) has
partnered with LEGO
South Africa after a competitive pitch process that will see Tribeca
managing and executing its public relations strategy in South Africa. Tribeca is very familiar with the
LEGO brand having worked with The Great Yellow Brick Company to open the first
LEGO Certified Stores in Sandton, Pretoria, Cape Town and Durban. “LEGO products enable children to unleash their
imaginations and build their confidence through the power of play. It’s such an
honour to work with a brand that has such a meaningful vision to positively
impact in children’s lives, who are the designers, engineers and architects of
the future,” said Natasha Marot, account director at Tribeca. KLA Market Research opens a London office KLA Market Research has opened oa London office
headed up by consumer insights specialist, Lyndsay Mac Dougall, who has
rejoined the KLA team. Mac Dougall’s career spans over 25 years, during which
time she has worked with a diverse range of clients and industries in the UK,
South Africa and Africa. “We are thrilled to have Lyndsay rejoin the team
at KLA and have every confidence in her ability to set up our London office.
This is particularly exciting for us as we look forward to expanding our
offering to local clients, as well as growing our client base in that
territory,” said Stephanie Matterson, MD of KLA Market Research. Eat
Out Restaurant Relief Fund launched Launched a week ago, the Eat Out Restaurant
Relief Fund, in partnership with Community
Chest, aims to support an industry in crisis as they provide hope and kindness
to needy communities. All around the country, restaurant kitchens have opened
to serve a different clientele; hungry South Africans in desperate need of
help. The fund’s mission is to support restaurants who have re-opened their
kitchens to create meals either for the needy in their communities, or to
supply feeding schemes. “This crisis is uniting us like never before, showing our
resilience and our humanity,” said Aileen Lamb, managing director of New Media,
which owns Eat Out. “The restaurant industry has been hit hard by the lockdown,
yet we are seeing the most extraordinary compassion coming from people in the
business who are using their time and resources to feed the most vulnerable.
The President’s announcement last night made it clear that this journey will be
a long and slow one. As the country slowly eases out of lockdown, the
restaurant industry will continue to feel this crisis for many months to come.
The Eat Out Restaurant Relief Fund aims to provide financial support to them to
become operational, so they can keep providing food for the growing number of hungry
families across South Africa.” New Media will seed the fund with R500 000.00.
“We know this amount is a small start, but we’re confident that with the
support of our loyal sponsors, advertisers, regular restaurant goers and the
corporate community at large, we can quickly raise the level of funds to really
make a difference,” Lamb said. This is proving true with
confirmed donations received late on 24 April from both Retail Capital
and the Graham Beck and Steenberg Vineyards. Each has donated R100 000.00. Donations to the Eat Out Restaurant Relief Fund can be
made at help.eatout.co.za and all donors will receive Section 18A tax certificates. Eat
Out will not derive any commercial benefit from this initiative – all money
donated will go directly to the qualifying restaurants. Openserve will launch its copper enabled
broadband access network in South Africa Openserve is set to wholesale its copper
broadband access network through its new suite of Openserve Pure Connect
products across multiple speeds. According to Openserve CEO, Althon Beukes, the
wholesaling of copper broadband access product compliments Openserve’s overall
fixed broadband strategy. “We continuously are looking at innovative ways to
provide affordable broadband access to our customers”. Openserve believes that through this initiative,
it will transform the current channel, process, pricing and product sets across
its portfolio there by making it easier for its clients to utilise, stimulate
and connect the end customer on its larger broadband access network. Facebook expands Coronavirus Information Centre
to 24 more countries in Africa Facebook is expanding its Coronavirus Information
Center to 24 more countries in Africa as part of its ongoing commitment to
empowering people around the world with timely and accurate news from trusted
health authorities. The Coronavirus (COVID-19) Information Center is
featured at the top of News Feed and provides a central place for people to
keep informed about the Coronavirus. It includes real-time updates from
national official sources, regional and global organizations such as the Africa
Center for Disease Control and the World Health Organisation as well
as helpful resources – articles, videos and posts – and tips about social
distancing and preventing the spread of COVID-19. Making moves SABC launches new channel, SABC Education The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has launched a new channel, SABC Education. In line with the Corporation’s mandate, it will broadcast public service content from the Department of Education, educational programmes currently available on SABC 1, 2, 3, and archived material produced by the SABC on a limited basis. The country’s public service broadcaster believes that the addition of the SABC Education channel to its existing portfolio will benefit learners throughout the country who have access to the Digital Terrestrial Television (Digital TV) network and other platforms, and provide them with more flexibility with regard to accessing educational content. However, the viability and success of the ‘SABC Education campaign’ is dependent on sponsorships to enable these vital educational material to be made available to all learners.  This is only possible if funding is made available to broadcast this material on SABC 1 and 2, the platforms with the best national reach. The SABC can provide 12 hours per day over these two channels. The SABC Education channel, which will go live on 4 May 2020, will be initially available on YouTube and Digital Terrestrial Television (DTT), and other platforms to be confirmed later. The launch of the channel is consistent with the Broadcasting Act, which stipulates that the public service content provided by the Corporation must include a significant amount of educational programming. SuperSport and SA Rugby to
release behind-the-scenes documentary on RWC win If the Springboks’ 2019 World Cup triumph was a heroic tale, the
story behind the famous win is even more remarkable. It’s an adventure that will be
given life in the coming months with SuperSport and SA Rugby’s six-part
documentary, Chasing the Sun, deep in production ahead of release, planned for
August. A SuperSport camera crew
travelled with the Boks for the duration of 2019 getting unprecedented
behind-the-scenes access throughout the lead-up and during the Rugby World Cup. “From the clips I’ve seen, this
will reveal an entirely new layer of what makes the Springboks great,” said
Gideon Khobane, SuperSport chief executive. “It is a powerful story about
changing fortunes and changing mindsets, about pressure and hope, about
recognising the power of inspiration, and learning what representation truly
means.” Jurie Roux, CEO of SA Rugby,
said: “The team welcomed the SuperSport crew into the inner sanctum for a
warts-and-all view of what goes on behind the scenes. The team was very clear
in its main focus – which was to win rugby matches – but we ended with a story
and a journey that proved to be far bigger than the game.” SABC calls on
citizens to play their part in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC]
has partnered with the Solidarity Fund, in an effort to give visibility to its
objectives and activities. This comes as the country is dealing with the
unprecedented challenge of the COVID-19 global pandemic. Key to the work of the
Solidarity Fund are measures aimed at lessening the severity of the COVID-19
impact on the nation. Central to the partnership is the launch of a
nationwide campaign to encourage citizens to contribute to the Solidarity
Fund’s endeavours. In line with its public mandate, the SABC has deemed it
necessary to embark on a four-week campaign, to mobilise South Africans to play
their part in supporting the work of the Solidarity Fund and to combat the
COVID-19 global pandemic. The campaign, #ThatsSolidarity, will be carried on all SABC radio stations, television channels and digital platforms. The SABC is using the campaign to encourage citizens to put their hearts and minds into the cause, and lend a helping hand to this crucial project. In addition to the campaign and as part of its own contribution, the SABC will allocate airtime to the value of R1.6m to broadcast the Solidarity Fund’s Public Service Announcements on television and radio during the four-week campaign For the Diary Mzansi Nillionaires: How can brands connect with
them? Nillionaires make up
around 70% of South Africa’s population. These are the consumers whose
households survive on less than R5 000 a month. They form the bottom line
for many brands. So what’s been happening in their world?  How has
COVID-19 changed their lives?  When lockdown began most of the world went
online. The Nillionaires went to stand in line. Their shopping
behaviour is changing because for now, they have to shop closer to home. 
Some of these stores don’t stock their brand or are out of stock, and often
their wallets are compromised forcing the already difficult decision between
brand love and price. How do brands connect
with this emerging market in the short term and build loyalty for the long
term? The team from Kantar will discuss how COVID-19 is changing retail for Nillionaires and will unpack insights to showcase what shopper behaviour was like before, how it’s changed now, and how much of this shift will stick post COVID-19.  The webinar is set to inspire new ideas and actions for all South African brands who want to build a relationship with this key market. Register here. Free online journalism course on the Coronavirus from 04-31 May 2020 A free online course by the Knight Centre for
Journalism in the Americas at the University of Texas at Austin, in partnership
with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and UNESCO, with support from the
Knight Foundation and the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), will be
hosted from May 04-31 May2020. The course,
Journalism in a pandemic: Covering COVID-19 now and in the future, will
be instructed by Maryn McKenna. Please click here for more info. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.