The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa entered lockdown, businesses closed across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s BIG move: SABC appoints Merlin
Naicker as group executive for television The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has
appointed Merlin Naicker as the GE: Television from 1 April 2020. Naicker brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise
to the SABC and he holds various qualifications including an MBA (Oxford
Brookes),  BSC Hons – Digital Technology, Design & Innovation (DIT)
and a Certificate in Advanced Broadcast Law (Wits Law). His career spans over 25 years of practical and
demonstrable experience as the CEO of Wizard Media Consulting, chief content
officer for Southtel VOD, head Satellite Television for Telkom Media and has served
on various other strategic positions at MultiChoice. Naicker was instrumental in the delivery of media solutions and projects such as the 2018
FIFA Russia broadcast, implementation of broadcast scheduling solutions for
various companies, SABC biometric access and CCTV monitoring projects and
Parliament TV broadcasts infrastructure upgrades. People moves New managing director for Jacaranda FM Deirdre King is the new managing director of Jacaranda FM. She joins the station from Nando’s South Africa, where she served as General Manager of Brand Experience IMEA (India, Middle East, Africa). King has an impressive resume and has helmed key
projects for some of South Africa’s biggest brands. Before joining Nando’s,
King worked as Head of Marketing and Communications (Africa) for The Walt
Disney Company. She oversaw the marketing of the company’s motion
picture business, three TV channels, digital content delivery, and media
distribution. For more, click
here. Lizelle McConnell
appointed head for sales for Tractor Outdoor Lizelle McConnell is no stranger to the OOH industry, with her in depth experience including servicing some of the biggest media agencies and clients across Johannesburg and Cape Town. She has been pivotal to the growth of Tractor Outdoor. Lizelle previously worked in the airport advertising
space as an experienced sales and media executive specialising in digital,
airport advertising and media planning across different sectors. Simon Wall, CEO of Tractor said, “During these past few
months with Lizelle joining Tractor, she has increased knowledge of our
operations as well as build a great relationship with our sales team. Her
experience coupled with her commitment and passion towards the entire team
showed us that this was the best and natural position for her. On behalf of the
Tractor group, I would like to congratulate Lizelle and wish her all the best
in this new role.” For more, click here. Business moves BMW and CNN join forces to explore the Art of Leadership In times of uncertainty, inspiring people play an
even more important role in sustaining society. The BMW Group and CNN
International Commercial (CNNIC) have teamed up to portray the stories and
attitude of some of the most remarkable creatives,
artists and leaders of our time through two unique series comprising a
total of 11 short films exploring The Art of Leadership. “All the best partnerships are based on common
values, and I am delighted that this is the case with this exciting new project
with BMW,” said Cathy Ibal, Senior Vice
President, EMEA, CNN International Commercial. “As leaders in our
respective fields, we honor and value those talents and characters that are
portrayed in the films as they change our society for the better. Powerful,
emotional storytelling from Create and Great Big Story will have a prominent
stage as we distribute these films in smart ways across all platforms to reach
a truly global audience that values leadership and the stories behind it.” On Thursday, CNN kicked off a six-part branded
content series by launching the first brand film produced by CNNIC’s
award-winning in-house studio Create. Mobax signs key agreement with Radwin as South
Africa looks towards the gig economy Mobax recently signed a key partnership agreement
with Radwin to roll out Radwin’s comprehensive portfolio of Point-to-Multipoint
and Point-to-Point wireless broadband solutions to its extensive base of
telecommunication network operators and corporate clients. Gerhard Bezuidenhout, managing director of Mobax,
said: “Radwin has an exciting portfolio of solutions that will enable us to
implement fibre-like broadband connectivity to deliver high-value services to
our extensive customer-base. This partnership leverages upon RADWIN’s wireless
broadband technology and the professionalism and high-quality engineering
capabilities of Mobax to deliver advanced fixed wireless solutions to existing
network operators and corporate clients as well as a broad scope of new
potential customers.” Magna Carta turns to animation to educate
Africans on Covid-19 As the terrifying prospects of a lockdown turned
into reality at midnight, one of Africa’s largest reputation management
consultancies, Magna Carta has turned to animation to educate people on the
symptoms and remind them to practice social distancing to prevent the spread of
the new coronavirus. The animated short video is a collaborative
effort with its offices on the continent and will be translated into some South
African and African languages. “When the outbreak was limited to China, everyone
was disconnected. But now that it is here, there is an overflow of information
however most of it is in English. Africa is a continent with high linguistic
diversity, and we wanted to make the lifesaving information more accessible in
a language of choice,” saidMoliehi Molekoa, managing director, Magna Carta. CWDi Introduces A Covid-19 support video training solution with Fuel Despite the COVID-19 pandemic that
the nation is currently faced with, CWDi is
determined to continue solving the challenges that businesses encounter, with
creative solutions that inspire connections. CWDihas
partnered with FUEL, to help companies support their staff by
educating them and raising the awareness of the prevention and safety protocols
necessary for combatting the COVID-19 pandemic. To do this, CWDi presents
FUEL’s COVID-19 ‘Care-iculum’. This e-learning content proposal will
effectively assist in meeting the goals of creating awareness around health and
prevention protocols which will reach all the staff in an organisation. The COVID-19 ‘Care-iculum’ is video
content that has been developed using factual information that has been
supplied by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Centre for Disease
Control (CDC). This information will be translated into Xhosa, Zulu and English The NFVF to offer immediate relief to film
practitioners amid COVID-19 lockdown South Africa’s local film and television industry
has been severely impacted by Covid-19 and a number of productions have been
haltered not to mention scores of live events cancelled. The NFVF will be
prioritising making payments to beneficiaries that have submitted milestones in
the past two weeks. Beneficiaries who have yet to submit milestones over the
next three months will also be consulted during this period to determine how
best they can be assisted. This extends only to individuals that have current
contracts with the NFVF. “We stand in solidarity with the practitioners of the TV and Film
industry and we hope that these relief measures we have put in place speak to
the level of our commitment,” said NFVF CEO Makhosazana Khanyile In line with the NFVF’s strategic objective of
creating an enabling environment for young filmmakers to develop the
technological skills to thrive in an ever-changing world, the NFVF is currently
engaging with potential partners to provide virtual training solutions during
this downtime. Out of home associations across the world join to fight the virus and plot course for the return to normality. The
World Out of Home Organisation has held its inaugural global conference call
for national out of home associations that included reports on the harrowing
effect the Covid-19 virus is having on societies across the world and business
– plus welcome news of inspiring social initiatives from various members and
evidence of an upturn in China. Further
weekly calls are scheduled. Different
countries are at different stages with the containment of the virus but, across
the board, there has been welcome support from governments for companies and
employees although, inevitably, Out of Home has to fight its corner. Support
will vary country by country: Dave Roberts of South Africa’s Primedia observed
that his hard-pressed government was unlikely to be able to help
significantly. Reductions
in business rates have supported retailers in some countries but Out of Home,
an important factor on high streets – still has to see a benefit. Landlords,
generally, appear to have responded with more flexible terms. More
lobbying is required and Anna Bager, President and CEO of the OAAA in the
United States, described her association’s determined efforts to find a
sympathetic ear in Washington. Government support can take a number of forms,
not least government agencies choosing out of home as part of their antivirus
media programmes. SA trade publisher adopts ‘pay-what-you-can’ ad
model during crisis MarkLives.com, the trade news site that covers
the South African advertising and marketing industry, has changed its
advertising model from fixed fees to “pay what you can”. “The world is focused on the grim toll this
pandemic is having on human lives and livelihoods,” notes publisher and editor
Herman Manson. “On the first, there’s no words for the horror emerging out of
countries at the frontline of this crisis. China, Iran, Italy and others hold a
dire warning for us to protect the most-vulnerable members of our society and
our healthcare professionals. “Equally, we understand the economic impact
will be severe — on the livelihoods of millions, on our economy and fiscus, on
our industry, our clients, your clients, on you, on us. With this in mind,
we’re introducing several changes to our commercial operations.” As a business-to-business publisher,
MarkLives.com believes in the value offered by our industry — not only in a
time of crisis — of contributing to the wheels of commerce and enterprise. “And
continue to turn they must,” said Manson. “Marketing, media and communication are
all critical aspects in ensuring commercial operations, and the jobs they help
create and maintain endure. At the same time, we believe — as we always have —
in the importance of an independent, journalism-driven trade media, and we’ll
have to find a way to fund this into the future.” FIVESTAR PR to represent ‘In Residence’ luxury
villa rentals FIVESTAR PR has
been appointed to represent In Residence luxury villa rentals. The
Cape Town based PR consultancy specialises in luxury travel and hospitality PR
and is preparing a communications strategy to roll out in the much-anticipated
return of local and international travel post the current COVID-19
crisis. Following global trends, the luxury villa rental
market is expecting a boom in South Africa too, as more and more affluent
travellers opt out of hotel stays, to choose the exclusivity, privacy and
convenience of spending their vacation in a private villa, exclusive apartment
or an exceptional private home. Says Janie van der Spuy, founder of FIVESTAR PR:
‘During this time of crisis and disruption, it is essential for the travel
industry to continue with marketing activities. History has shown that during
crisis times those businesses that continue to develop and adapt their business
strategy by introducing creative PR and marketing campaigns, are invariably
best positioned to thrive when they come out the other side.’ HP Inc. launches BeOnline programme HP Inc. announced the launch of BeOnline
programme in collaboration with Classera, the leader in Learning Management
Systems, and Mirai, a learning innovations group focusing on learning strategy
and digital pedagogy. In line with the most recent regional
governments’ directives for distance learning, the programme aims to support
schools and universities in establishing a fully-fledged virtual learning
environment, by providing expertise and tools at no cost. BeOnline is part of HP’s commitment to
improving the learning outcomes for 100 million people globally by 2025 and run
focused pedagogy-oriented programs to deliver on its education and
sustainability goals – Classroom of the Future, HP Learning Studios, Digital
School Awards, HP LIFE and HP Teaching Fellows. Making
moves BBC to release special My World: Coronavirus
content for global young audiences with Angelina Jolie The BBC World Service, supported by Angelina
Jolie, is extending the My World series with special digital content about the
Coronavirus pandemic, aimed specifically at a young teen audience. Angelina Jolie has made a statement in her role
as Executive Producer of BBC My World: “Children have not been out of school on
this scale since the Second World War. This is something that throughout their
lifetimes, they will remember. It is something that older generations, for all
their other reference points, have not experienced. The way children go through
this time – from the tools and information they can access to the ways they can
communicate to and help each other – will be unique to their generation,” she
said. The new content will be released over the coming
weeks on the BBC My World YouTube
channel. It will also be distributed across the BBC’s global platforms
including our 42 language services. This follows on from a Coronavirus Special
episode which aired at the weekend. The BBC will be sharing this content with
UNESCO’S Global Education Coalition, a new website providing remote educational
content to kids in lockdown around the world. The BBC My World: Corona Virus
Special is also still available to watch on the BBC My World YouTube
channel, BBC iPlayer (UK only), and BBC Reel. This follows the announcements
made recently by BBC Director General Tony Hall about the BBC’s plans to
continue to inform, educate, and entertain during unprecedented times. Radio stations broadcasting the National Anthem on Friday 3 April at 13H00 To
mark the first day of the national lockdown, many of South Africa’s radio
stations who form part of the NAB, broadcast the National Anthem on Friday, 27
March 2020 at 13h00 and will be doing so again on Friday 3 April. Executive
director Nadia Bulbulia said the initiative was borne out of the programming
teams of many of its members. “It’s really encouraging to see radio stations
collaborating in this way in our collective fight against the pandemic. The
next 21 days gives us an opportunity to contain the virus and flatten the
curve. Broadcasters are playing a vital role in social cohesion and keeping us
connected during this unprecedented time,” she said. Staying
at home can be an isolating experience, but radio has the unique and powerful
ability to lift spirits and encourage unity. The medium will no doubt continue
to create meaningful connections with communities. Listen to your favourite
station at 1PM on Friday 3 April and encourage your “lockdown partners/family”
to join you. DA launches WhatsApp line to report Police and
Army abuse and advise the public The Democratic Alliance
has launched a dedicated WhatsApp number (067 977 9324) and email address
(reportpoliceabuse@da.org.za) where members of the public can report any acts
of assault, abuse or bribery by law enforcement officers. They can also send the
DA their questions regarding their legal rights during the Covid-19
lockdown. The WhatsApp number and
email address will be monitored by a task team of DA MPs that form part of the
security and justice clusters in Parliament. They are experts in their fields
and will be able to provide expert advice to the South African public. The nation is only six
days into this lockdown and we have already seen increased violence at the
hands of those who were tasked with protecting and serving us. On Tuesday,
reports indicated that the police shot two nurses at the Bongani Regional
Hospital in Welkom, and on Monday, an Ekurhuleni Metro police officer was
arrested for allegedly shooting and killing a Vosloorus man while enforcing the
lockdown. Ukhozi FM extends programming on Term 1 matric
revision content The South African Broadcasting Corporation’s (SABC)
biggest radio station, Ukhozi FM has extended its Term 1 matric revision
classes from one slot to three slots. The original 21h00 – 22h00 slot will now
be supported by two new slots between  09h00 – 09h30 and 15h00 –
15h30.  This initiative forms part of Ukhozi FM’s efforts to intensify the
broadcast of educational programmes in response to the lockdown which has
resulted in students not being able to attend their normal classes. Ukhozi FM’s acting station manager, Sbongi Ngcobo, said
the station was hopeful that the addition of the revision programmes would assist
the students to keep up with the curriculum, as well as ensuring that there is
minimal disruption to this year’s matric class program. “We urge other
provinces and departments to come on board and join hands to assist the station
in delivering quality content that will help us flatten the curve as a
country.” Earn Your Share Of 100 000 MeBucks, By Watching
Videos Online During The Lock Down Over the next few weeks, South Africans are going
to have a lot more free time on their hands, with many needing a little bit of
extra cash. So, from Friday 27 March to 15 April, Brand Hubb is
rewarding consumers with ‘MeBucks’ for watching fun, educational and
high-quality content. MeBucks is the Brand Hubb currency that consumers
can use to buy goods in our e-commerce store.
1MeBuck=1Rand. Rob Anderson, CEO of Brand Hubb, said: “We are
seeing the glass as half full and we believe that with the country in
self-isolation, consumers are likely to be at home browsing the internet and
social media for interesting and uplifting content, and we want to provide it
to them, while rewarding them too.” To get involved all consumers need to do is: Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.