Cape Town commercial radio station, Kfm 94.5 has launched a new South African music show called SA Royalty. The show, brainchild of The Flash Drive and The Kfm Top40 host, Carl Wastie, will see the station deliver two hours of uninterrupted South African music from 10pm – midnight, Monday to Friday. The new show is the stations bid to further support South African musicians’ call for stations to assist with airplay during the 2020 lockdown period. “I am a big supporter of local music. I understand the revenue challenges for our artists due to Covid-19 restrictions and through the new show, not only do we offer our listeners the chance to enjoy  the most and best South African music but to also make a tangible difference through royalties for the artists playlisted on this show,” said  Wastie. Wastie added: “Kfm is well-known for supporting South African music through big events such as Huawei KDay and through the regular play of SA music on the station’s playlist. The introduction of the new show is a further commitment to making a difference to the pockets of the artists we know and love.” Kfm 94.5 listeners can expect the best selection of homegrown hits and music from Mzansi legends to make you feel great! Kfm 94.5 daytime line-up during Lockdown 2020: 6am – 7am                          Early Mornings with Liezel van der Westhuizen 7am -10am                         Kfm Mornings with Darren, Sherlin and Sibs 10am -12.30pm                  Mid-mornings with Tracey Lange 12.30pm -3pm                    Lunch with EB Inglis 3pm -7pm                           The Flash Drive with Carl Wastie 7pm -10pm                         Kfm Nights with Brandon Leigh 10pm -midnight                  SA Royalty on Kfm 94.5 Tune into Kfm 94.5 on FM, via DStv Channel 880 or online through kfm.co.za. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.