Every year a new crop of design trends emerges from the previous year’s labor. Some trends delight, some inspire, and some make our eyes ache. New grows old, and old is new again. Change is one of the
most challenging and satisfying aspects of a career in design. The evolution of
taste and technology keeps our skills sharp and demands we stay connected to
the people we create for. As 2019 winds down, we’re looking ahead. We’ve identified 20
emerging design trends for 2020, but we’re not just listing fonts and colors.
We’re showcasing game-changers and industry shakers that will define our
experiential landscape for the year to come. Dark
patterns. Data mining. Deliberately addictive design features. We know they
exist. We know the sneaky little tricks that subtly influence users’ digital
decisions. And we know the companies that use design to intentionally take
advantage of customers. Thankfully, dishonest
design has been exposed to the glare of public scrutiny, prompting businesses
and designers to more carefully weigh the ethical implications of their design
decisions. In 2020, UX designers and teams will encounter a greater
number of clients desiring to make ethical design a top priority. In turn, more
designers will become familiar with ethical standards while learning how to
examine design decisions through the lens of ethical
frameworks. Digital speed reading
apps have been around for several years. Some have loyal followings, but none
has risen to a place of widespread public use. Ironically, many online
publications are releasing shorter articles in an attempt to offset readers’
diminished attention spans. Speed reading apps require an initial adjustment, but
they’re proven to increase focus and reading completion, and they’re a great
way to present text on small screens. Expect more digital publications and
copy-heavy content providers to implement speed reading options in 2020. Website overlays (aka pop-ups) have spread like a pestilence to the far corners of the digital universe. The only cure is a healthy dose of reality. People hate to be interrupted, hate to have their progress impeded, hate to be jolted from focus by promotional opportunities. Yet, overlays remain common practice. Thankfully, more designers are coming to
grips with the truth: Overlays are bad CX. In 2020, businesses will forgo the
quick-hit metrics boost of overlays in favor of more holistic conversion
practices. For decades, logos
have been designed with longevity in mind, but as more industries do business
online, expectations have changed. Pixels are easily updated, and digital
content is ignored if it isn’t fresh and relevant. Translation: A brand’s
visual predictability isn’t nearly as important as it once was. Look for brands to
experiment with stylistically diverse logo collections that correspond to
thematic mile markers (product launches, events, holidays, etc). Companies that
employ this strategy effectively will improve brand engagement by finding ways
to build anticipation for each logo release. Chatbots are massively misunderstood. In some circles, they’re overhyped. In others, they’re harshly criticised. The truth about their abilities lies somewhere in between, but one thing is certain: Simple chatbots designed to perform specific tasks are highly effective. One role where chatbots shine is sales, but not because they can be scripted with cutesy conversational quips. Bots sell when they make shopping easier for motivated buyers. In 2020, chatbot ‘companions’ will dwindle in favour of hyper-focused bots that streamline purchasing. As a result, chatbot-led sales will skyrocket. Accessibility is a
growing priority among web and mobile product design teams. Rightly so. No one
should have to jump extra hurdles to access information that ought to be
available to all, but making a website or app accessible isn’t without
challenges. Traditionally,
companies have hired firms to review and modify their sites for accessibility
compliance. This process is time consuming, costly, and plagued by a major
flaw. Sites that have been modified for accessibility immediately become
non-compliant once an update occurs. Enter artificial intelligence. There are
now AI accessibility services that monitor sites for compliance.
The AI scans sites at regular intervals, and when updates occur, the site is
modified and made compliant. The accessibility requirements of motor,
cognitive, and visual impairments (along with epilepsy) are all accounted for.
Expect to see accessibility soar in 2020 as more teams and organizations
integrate these AI services into their design
process. On Android devices, Google gives users the ability to cut down on load times, use less data, and browse faster by viewing sites in ‘Lite’ mode. It’s a compelling concept, but the functionality of Lite mode is somewhat clunky, and there are times when it blocks key website features or fails to display important information. Rather than allowing Google to interpret what users see in Lite mode, UI designers will begin creating customised lite screens that can be toggled on or off from a site’s navigation bar. Doing so will keep lite design in the hands of designers while allowing users to reap the benefits of lite browsing. Across the web, buttons have evolved from overlooked
design components to sleek and stylish conversion drivers. That said, button
styles have become somewhat predictable, the differentiator being color in most
cases. 2020 will usher in an
era of strategically gaudy buttons. Such buttons will be unmissable,
unmistakably clickable, and used in conjunction with crucial calls-to-action. Blue is certainly classic. It’s calm, comfortable, and reassuring – just like a pair of Wranglers. But good ol’ blue isn’t the colour that will dominate 2020. That distinction goes to green, a symbol of vitality and neutrality for uncertain times. From interfaces to interiors, expect to see Mother Nature’s favourite hue infiltrating design decisions in all disciplines. Need a specific shade? Look no further than dark seafoam green, a colour readily found in plant life and natural phenomena. Variable fonts are individual font files
that behave like multiple fonts. One file houses a single set of glyphs from
which additional weights and proportions are interpolated between predefined
nodes. Besides looking cool in design portfolios, variable fonts are a boon for
responsive typography because they allow designers to ensure optimal reading
experiences on a range of screen sizes and orientations. In 2020, designers will allow users to customise
individual reading experiences by incorporating variable
font sliders
on copy-heavy websites and apps. Some designers will cringe at the thought of
their type schemes being tinkered with, but a person’s ability to read text
always trumps visual appeal. With the 2020 elections, organisations of every type will turn to data visualisations and infographics to deliver important facts to their followers. But they won’t be using stodgy charts and stale graphics. Designers will help
clients ignite their social channels by creating visuals that deliver a double
whammy of statistical clarity and human connection. Expect data-viz and
infographics to eschew traditional 2D techniques in favor of alternative
methods like photography, 3D modeling, mixed-media collage, and DIY animation. Thanks to
illustration, the web is a more interesting place. Complicated technical
concepts are now relatable. Mundane product offerings are strangely enticing. As the need for
illustration grows, companies will require more than a couple of homepage
illustrations. They’ll need extensive illustration libraries that can be added
to and updated quickly. One hitch. Compelling illustration takes time. The
workaround? Limited color palettes. In 2020, brands will
use more illustrations than ever, and to meet the demand, illustrators will
utilize monochromatic color schemes. To add nuance and extend brands’
storytelling capabilities, chosen colors will represent predefined themes. Microcopy is no longer
an obscure UX subtopic only discussed by industry insiders. It’s a cornerstone
of today’s digital experience. Microcopy makes users experts by helping them
navigate and comprehend functionality, and it furthers brand engagement through
tone of voice. Unfortunately, there are times when brands prioritise tone of voice over clarity. When attempts at humour or cleverness cause confusion, microcopy becomes a hindrance. In 2020, UX writers will forgo fanciful microcopy and find ways to balance brand personality with focused precision. The physical and
digital realms are intertwining, but the transition between realms isn’t
seamless, especially where screens are involved. Screens require
interpretation, a momentary hesitation for the senses to reorient when looked
at or away from. Lounging in front of a laptop or a phone, the switch between
physical and digital might not appear substantial, but there’s a reason why
texting is prohibited while driving. Screens are distracting. Thankfully, screens
aren’t the only way for people to interface with machines, and more companies
are betting that the future of human-computer interaction won’t take place on
phones or laptops. In 2020, the transition between physical
and digital will become even more imperceptible as voice
user interfaces, wearables, and haptic technology offer consumers
experiences that screens can’t match. Digital design for
mobile devices thrives on simplicity. As such, a minimalist aesthetic dominates
digital product design. But for all the austere elegance of our design world,
the rebellious spark of maximalist expressionism will not die. Today, there’s a rising
movement of designers who refuse to concede that visual simplicity is
always the best solution. Such designers believe that maximalist design
communicates information with greater clarity and character than minimalism. In 2020, more
designers will depart from minimalism to pursue experimentation and the chance
to help their clients stand out in a world of digital sameness. Whether its a product picture for eCommerce, a fashion shot for print, or a lifestyle photo for social, the quality of photography can make or break a brand interaction. What most people don’t realise is the amount of time that goes into a shoot. Point and click is not part of the equation. When clients have limited resources,
designers are typically forced to mine stock photography sites for visual
content. But now there’s a growing list of stock sites that offer customised campaigns on a subscription
basis. A variation of this model was recently launched by Unsplash. Brands pay to have their logos and
products placed in free Unsplash images which are used and viewed by millions. Anticipate these
services to rise in popularity as custom stock sites improve their offerings
and make it easier for designers (and their clients) to define brand-specific
photo briefs. In recent years, many brands have adopted a more liberal approach to color. Expanded colour palettes are especially useful on the web, where visual elements like illustrations and UI components require colour flexibility. 2020 will bring an increased number of dynamic UI colour schemes that change based on environmental variables (time, location, weather), user behaviour (inactivity, clicking, scrolling), and personalised themes (light or dark). Expect designers to pair dynamic palettes with colour psychology to further influence key metrics. Social media users are obsessed with ephemeral content – images, videos, and sound snippets that are available for a limited number of hours. It makes sense. People like quick hitting stories, and there’s a psychological component that amplifies the value of things perceived to be scarce. Not all social sites remove posts after predetermined timespans, but the ephemeral mindset is firmly entrenched in users’ expectations of social content. In the coming year,
branded social content will be increasingly story-based, but high-polish
production values and strict narrative structures will prove to be too slow and
inflexible to be sustainable. Instead of obsessing over manicured posts, savvy
companies will embrace the fleeting nature of ephemeral content and elevate
engaging, in-the-moment sentiments above all else. When a phone is
unlocked, a user sees one of two things: Phone carriers and equipment manufacturers are rethinking this experience. Predictive first-screen technology learns users’ preferences and preloads content to be found immediately after unlock. This means that users don’t need to navigate through their phones to find what they want – a subtle but significant shift in the way people use mobile devices. First-screen technology won’t be without controversy
in 2020. Aimless browsing is big business (i.e., every social site ever), and
predictive content loading raises concerns about what users are shown and who
controls the distribution of information. 2020 is an election
year for nations across the globe, and it’s no secret that the political
landscape has been a bit…contentious. No doubt, some companies will slosh fuel
on the outrage inferno by launching divisive ad campaigns (as if we don’t see
enough from the candidates themselves). Recent studies have shown that frenzied political divides are eroding our physical and mental wellbeing. Savvy brands will steer clear of political controversy and promote their wares with themes of unity, partnership, and co-operation. Forecasting the future
of design is a tricky endeavor. Some trends explode from obscurity to light up
the sky but soon fade. Others start as a flicker and come on slow, glowing ever
brighter until they’re entrenched in our everyday design decisions. As designers, we tend to be controlled by trends or reject them altogether. Both options are limiting. Trends source their power from people and time. A trend becomes a trend because enough people find it compelling, and every trend has a period of peak influence. To use trends well requires a finely tuned sense of what an audience wants and when they want it. This story was first published on the Toptal Design Blog and is republished here with permission. Micah Bowers uses brand design and illustration to tell stories on behalf of his clients. He believes that design must identify a need, stir a desire for change, and shed light on a path that is uniquely helpful, hopeful, and human. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.