The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: 5FM kicks the year off by welcoming new management JD Mostert has joined 5FM as the new station manager,
and Siyanda Fikelephi has taken on the role of programme manager. Mostert, an award-winning media executive with more
than 12 years’ radio industry experience, is optimistic about his departure
from a regional station to the national youth powerhouse. He comes from a
strong radio background having started at TUKS FM in 2008 as a production
manager and has held positions at various regional radio stations including
executive producing two breakfast shows before taking on the job as executive
and content programme manager at a Johannesburg radio station for the past five
years. “5FM has always been an exciting brand, with a rich
and proud history, not only for the audience but also for the industry, and
being afforded the opportunity to be part of the team is an incredible honour,”
said Mostert. “The bar has been set high with the audience appropriately only
demanding the best, and while it is a seemingly daunting challenge, it is a
challenge which the team is eagerly willing to take on.” Fikelephi is equally pleased with his new role. No
stranger to the SABC, Fikelephi worked as the station producer and music compiler
at Radio 2000 in 2010 before taking on a management role as the stations’
programme manager two years later. Moving to Umhlobo Wenene FM in 2016 –
leading a team for three years – winning 15 Liberty Radio Awards and 2 Station
of the Year awards between 2016 – 2019. “It is always exciting to join an iconic brand such
as 5FM. We have an amazing team with immense talents,” he said. 5FM’s marketing manager, Liesl Hefkie, who has acted
as station manager since May 2018, said she was eager for their fresh ideas and
plans for the station. People moves Sikonathi Mantshantsha takes on role as Eskom’s spokesperson Power utility Eskom has appointed former Financial Mail deputy editor Sikonathi Mantshantsha as its national spokesperson, seeking to improve its public image amid huge taxpayer bailouts and load-shedding. “His appointment is a firm step from our side to strengthen our efforts to improve Eskom’s image, to add another layer of success to our media response strategies in order to be more direct and proactive when engaging with media and other interest groups,” said new Eskom CEO, André de Ruyter, in a statement. Mantshantsha has worked in the media since 2004, starting as the chief editorial researcher at Media24, he later joined FinWeek and Fin24.com as a financial journalist for five years, Eskom said. He joined joined Bloomberg News in November 2010 as the equities, industrial and markets reporter before moving on two years later to Business Day and Financial Mail as an investment and energy writer, a role that saw him interact extensively with energy issues and with Eskom in particular. Read more on BusinessLive here. Wesley Diphoko new editor of Fast
Company (SA) Fast Company magazine (South Africa), has announced
the appointment of Wesley Diphoko as editor in chief. He succeeds Zainab
Slemang van Rijmenant, who had been acting in the position since the end of
2018. Diphoko is no stranger to challenges and leading
new thinking, something he is looking forward to bringing to South Africa’s
premier business magazine. He has been editor in chief of The Infonomist,
a technology media start-up, since 2016, overseeing a range of newsroom
initiatives and editorial projects, and launched Independent Media’s Innovation
Lab, a platform designed to develop digital and technology talent within Independent
Media. “I’m honoured to be appointed editor of Fast
Company magazine, the world’s most respected business innovation and technology
publication of its kind,” Diphoko said. “I’m looking forward to growing the
local Fast Company edition into an authority on the innovation and technology
eco-system in South Africa.” Mark Rosin is SAMRO’s new CEO Mark Rosin has been appointed CEO of the Southern
African Music Rights Organisation (SAMRO). Rosin, who holds an LLB specialising in
corporate, media and entertainment law from the University of the Witwatersrand,
will assume his duties at the beginning of February. His career in media and
entertainment spans more than three decades, during which he has represented
South African and international music industry clients in litigation and
commercial matters. As an attorney he represented music publishers, composers,
recording artists, recording companies, live concert promoters and visiting
international artists. “Mark Rosin’s appointment comes at a time when
the organisation has set up stringent performance targets which include
diversifying income streams, increasing revenue, delivering real meaningful
value for the SAMRO members and organisational costs reduction, all of which
will be key focus areas for Rosin”, said Board Chairperson, Nicholas
Maweni. From 2011 until the first quarter of 2019, Rosin was employed by eMedia Investments, home of e.tv, eNCA and Openview in various roles, holding the position of Group Chief Operating Officer since 2014. Prior to his appointment at SAMRO, he was operating as a freelance legal and business affairs consultant. Alex Okosi appointed MD of YouTube’s EMEA emerging markets YouTube has announced Alex Okosi will be taking on the role of managing director of emerging markets for YouTube in Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA). Okosi will be responsible for running YouTube’s business and partnership teams across emerging markets in EMEA including Russia, the Middle East, North and Sub-Saharan Africa. He will report to the head of YouTube EMEA, Cécile Frot-Coutaz. Based in the London office, Okosi will start in April 2020. “YouTube is a game-changing platform that plays an increasingly important role in our lives today through the dynamic content and innovation that it delivers,” Okosi said. “I am very excited to be joining Cecile’s leadership team to continue empowering creators and elevating value for viewers and partners across the region.” Read more here. ViacomCBS appoints Monde Twala and Craig Paterson to replace Alex Okosi With the announcement that Alex Okosi is leaving VCN Africa and BET International, ViacomCBS Networks International (VCNI) has announced that at the end of February 2020, Craig Paterson and Monde Twala will take over as co-general managers of ViacomCBS Networks Africa. As co-head of the business, Twala will focus on content, creative, editorial and marketing across all VCNI brands. Twala is currently the VP of ViacomCBS Networks Africa’s BET, Youth & Music brands. Paterson will be responsible for all corporate functions, including business development and strategy. Currently senior VP of business operations for ViacomCBS Networks Africa, Paterson is responsible for driving strategic growth and business opportunities in Africa. Prior to this role, Paterson was responsible for operations and finance for multimedia brands MTV, MTV Music24, Nickelodeon, Nick Toons, Nick Junior, MTV Base, BET and Comedy Central on the African continent. Read more here. Zeitz Mocaa announces appointments to lead institutional advancement team Zeitz
Museum of Contemporary Art Africa (Zeitz MOCAA) has appointed Annicia
Manyaapelo as head of marketing and communications, while Michelle Stein has
taken on the role of the museum’s head of philanthropy. Manyaapelo
brings over 20 years’ experience as a media, marketing specialist and business
director to the museum. Most recently, she served as executive business director
for FCB Joburg where she led the integrated agency teams that produced work for
the South African Tourism authority. Stein,
meanwhile, spent 12 years in London where she worked in fundraising for a range
of charities, including the British Museum and the Commonwealth Secretariat. She
led and managed a large portfolio of capital donors to the British Museum with
a focus on securing international gifting, grant-writing and major donor
events. “Annicia
and Michelle bring a richness of expertise and knowledge to their roles and the
institutional advancement department. I am very excited to have them on board
and look forward to working with them to expand the museum’s reach with key
partners and individuals,” said Koyo Kouoh, executive director and chief curator
at Zeitz MOCAA. Business moves What do South African
CEO’s really think of 4IR? What do South African CEO’s really think of
4IR? This and other dynamic topics focusing on the impact of the fourth
industrial revolution have been announced for the inaugural Business Day Focus 4.0conference
and exhibition, which will take place at the Kyalami Grand Prix Circuit &
International Convention Centre on 3 March 2020. Business Day Focus 4.0
is presented in partnership with Cold Press Media and is billed as a new
platform for information-sharing and debate that intently examines the impact
of the fourth industrial revolution (4IR) in South Africa. “The immediate rush of interest that was generated
when the event was announced last year required the shift to a venue that could
accommodate the demand of conference delegates and exhibitors,” said Taryn
Westoby, head of Arena Holdings’ Events Division. “It’s clear that CEOs across
all industries in South Africa find the onset of 4IR a pressing issue, for
which they need their businesses to remain ahead of the curve.” The line-up of speakers includes: Media personality and entrepreneur Andile Khumalo
will perform the MC duties, supported by panel moderators Dominic Gaobepe
(business consultant and author), and Joanne Joseph (presenter on 702 and
eNCA). Parkupp the latest brainchild app to come
from SA JanuWorry, the month that often brings
financial stress post the December holidays for many individuals and businesses
across South Africa. However, some residents and owners are
able to weather the storm with some extra cash in the pocket from their unused
parking. ParkUpp has over 4 500 listings on the
platform, predominantly in Johannesburg and Cape Town. These include The Union
Castle building owned by Izandla Properties, Design Quarter on William Nicol
Dr, along with other commercial and residential parking facilities. It has also been awarded some accolades
from property industry incumbents such as the Women’s Property Network (WPN)
for Young Achiever’s category and South African Institute of Black Property
Professionals (SAIBPP) for Disruptor of the Year. This award winning platform not only
creates extra income from empty parking spaces, it also decreases drivers’
anxiety of parking in unsafe space and also saves them a buck. In the Cape Town
CBD, with over 45% cars parked on-street, paying an average of R18/hour,
amounting to R2 880 a month, ParkUpp users are able to save up to 50% by renting
out a parking for R1 500. Making moves Call for applications for WVL SA grants South African Women’s Rights organisations are invited to apply for funding under the Government of  Canada’s Women Voice and Leadership-South Africa Fund (WVL SA).  The initiative arises from Canada’s Feminist International Assistance Policy   (FIAP) addressing six main elements: i) promoting gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls; ii) human dignity; iii) growth that works for everyone; iv) environment and climate action; v)   inclusive governance; vi) peace and security. Eligibility criteria can be   found here. The grant call is managed by Gender Links through its GL Services portfolio. Please read through these questions and responses to  familiarise yourself with the process. All applications must be filled in online. Nomthandazo Mokoa on   email grants@genderlinks.org.za, or Chido Machakanja, senior finance officer – Grants, on Grants.finance@genderlinks.org.za or phone 082 560 0066 or 011 029 0006 are available to offer virtual support. MINISTER STELLA NDABENI-ABRAHAMS TO ENGAGE THE 4IR
 SKILLS PROGRAMME STUDENTS The Minister of Communications and Digital Technologies, Ms Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams will, on 23 and 24 January 2020, conduct an oversight visit to various Gauteng facilities where over 500  students are being trained on the department’s 4IR Skills Programme. In 2018, the Minister announced a bold vision to train one million young people in data science and related skills by 2030. To kick start this initiative, the department of telecommunications and postal services concluded a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MICT SETA. The MoU  led to the launch of a pilot project to train 1 000 young people on data  science, cloud computing, digital content production, 3D printing, drone  piloting, cybersecurity and software development. “Skills development is an important pillar of our 4IR response and Building a Capable 4IR Army.  We are therefore proud of  this inaugural class of 2019 for heeding the call to acquire skills that will  enable them to thrive in the digital era and thereby contribute to the country’s  economy,” emphasised Ndabeni-Abrahams. Oversight visits to facilities in other provinces  will unfold in the proceeding weeks as part of the nationwide Back-to-School Programme. SANEF reports progress on its media
 ethics and credibility enquiry The South African National Editors’ Forum says
 important progress has been made regarding the independent
 media ethics and credibility inquiry. It was launched at the end of June 2019,
 with funding raised by SANEF. The Inquiry is run by an independent panel,
 chaired by retired Judge Kathleen Satchwell and includes panelists Nikiwe
 Bikitsha and Rich Mkhondo. By mid-December 2019, the Panel had rigorously
 engaged with 55 substantive submissions, many of which required follow-up
 including oral hearings and further research. Among a number of issues, the
 Inquiry has been engaging with the Sunday Times SARS “Rogue Unit” story. The
 Panel will conclude receiving unsolicited approaches by the end of January
 2020. SANEF encourages all interested individuals and organisations to contact
 the panel via email – panel@mediainquiry.co.za
 within the remaining days. The
 Panel will then spend February to April 2020 following up with further
 meetings with selected individuals and organisations, reviewing their own and
 the research of others. The  panelists anticipate submitting the final Report to SANEF in June 2020 to  enable us to engage with the contents and proposals and to prepare for our  planned media industry conference in October 2020. The plan is for the  conference to adopt a media industry action plan and for media houses to sign  an ethics pledge. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.