The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media industry. Design Indaba’s Emerging Creatives Class of 2020, supported by the Department of Arts and Culture, have been announced. The country’s 50 most innovative young talents, handpicked by curators Mokoena Kobeli, Crystal Birch and Siyanda Mbele, are set to exhibit their work at the Design Indaba Festival in Cape Town, being held from 26-28 February 2020. To view the entire class of 2020 creatives click here. 14th Annual South African Film and Television Awards (SAFTAs) open Discretionary Award Nominations The National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF), an agency of the Department of Sports, Arts, and Culture and custodian of the SAFTAs, extends a call to the South African film and television industry to nominate nominees for the following awards: Lifetime Achiever Award: This award is presented to an experienced individual with an extensive and outstanding contribution to South African film and television, both locally and internationally. Youth Achiever Award: This award is presented to a young individual who has demonstrated excellence in their craft. Outstanding Person with Disability Contributor Award: This award is awarded to a person with a disability who has achieved excellence in the film and television industry. Outstanding Provincial Contributor Award: This award is awarded to an outstanding individual, group or a particular initiative that has contributed significantly towards developing the film and television industry in the respective province. Emerging Filmmaker Award: This award is awarded to a “new-comer” in the film and television industry that is creating or producing brilliant work. All nominations must include a profile of the person being nominated, a copy of their CV and must be submitted to staceyl@nfvf.co.za by the 14 February 2020. Entries are open for the third annual Absa Business Day Supplier Development Awards Large corporates have until 17 February 2020 to submit their entries for the third annual Absa Business Day Supplier Development Awards.  Eleven awards will be decided this year, with two new categories included. The awards showcase supplier development best practice, and are essential for celebrating the efforts of large South African companies who have committed themselves to building inclusive and transformed supply chains that thrive. In 2019, Distell was recognised as the Overall Winner, with South African Breweries, Property Point (a Growth Point initiative), Accenture, Exxaro Resources, and Macsteel also claiming top category honours. Categories that will be awarded in 2020 are: Entries do not carry any costs for applicants, and can be made by completing the application form at www.sdawards.co.za. Winners will be awarded at an interactive breakfast event hosted by Arena Holdings on 20 May 2020, in Parktown, Johannesburg. This year’s INMA awards are intensively driven by theCORE formula of Creativity, Originality, Results, and Enthusiasm. The Friday, 24 January deadline is fast approaching, so get started today by selecting categories and submitting your work here. The INMA Global Media Awards echoes what’s happening in the news media industry on news brands and audience development, platform excellence, innovation, advertising and talent retention. This is a chance to show what your team achieved in 2019. The coveted INMA prizes are presented during the Awards Gala Dinner on 28 April in the Opera Ballroom at the InterContinental Paris Le Grand. Get your entries in now to qualify as a Station of the Year finalist at The Radio Awards 2020 An amendment in how the Station of the Year will be decided in 2020 has been added to the 10th iteration of The Radio Awards. It is therefore imperative that radio stations submit their general entries before the 24 January 2020 deadline. “We believe that transparency in the adjudication of awards is essential if The Radio Awards is to maintain its credibility as the South African radio industry’s most important recognition event,” said Taryn Westoby, head of Events at Arena Holdings. One of the most notable changes to the 2020 programme is the determination of the Station of The Year award. It is one of the most prestigious accolades, and an early understanding of how the winner will be decided is therefore imperative. “Stations that wish to be in the running need to ensure they submit high-quality entries for as many categories as possible,” Westoby said. Here is how Station of the Year in the Campus, Community, PBS and Commercial categories will be decided in 2020: Dates to remember Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.