Eighty-six percent of South African consumers prefer to talk about brands in real life versus 63% who “tap”, engaging in digital conversations. Nielsen’s Real Life vs
Digital Life Report said the “obsession” around social media had “created the
illusion that digital reality rules, putting all real life communication on the
backburner”. That’s the word from a
global consumer study, Digital vs Real Life, conducted by Nielsen, which has
reported that although consumers actively engaged online, word of mouth or real
life conversations had a “stronger influence on consumers’ minds and,
therefore, their purchasing decisions”. “Word of mouth has always been and remains one of the greatest enablers for marketers in the battles for consumers’ hearts and minds, and it is crucial to understand the way you can leverage its opportunities for your brand,” said Sue Temple, vice-president of Global Consumer Insights at Nielsen. “It is easier for us to trust people we know – friends, spouses, colleagues – than unknown personalities on social media so to unlock this opportunity for business more efforts need to be put into a positive experience, which will encourage your customers to share within their personal network.” The Real Life vs Digital
Life survey reported that 77% of respondents from South Africa had confirmed
word of mouth influenced them “highly” versus 65% social media, which included
all types of interactions that consumers have online, including traditional social
media sites and websites. Disturbingly,
despite the extensive use of social media, Nielsen discovered that the ore
consumers use social networks, the less they trust them. “With social networks
rising in popularity over the last decade it is no surprise their use, spread
among all generations, is leaking into consumer’s everyday life,” Temple said.
“Nevertheless, the quality of digital communication hasn’t developed at the
same pace, and having been burned too many times, when dealing with fake news,
frauds and data breaches consumers respond with less trust to information
shared via new media.” Interestingly, in South
Africa, newspapers commanded a ‘trust to usage’ index[1] of 225,
television 116 and internet/digital media, a much lower index of 77. “Globally, Millennials
happen to be the most loyal audience for all channels, with newspapers being
the most trusted channel (index of 356) for them. On the flipside, Baby Boomers
are sceptical towards all channels and the Silent generation has a clear
preference to newspapers (index of 241),” Nielsen reported. For South Africans, top of the list for reasons for going online were: Most South Africans express their personal opinions in real life because they would like to recommend good products (46%), are sharing the experience (45%), and remarking on exclusive deals and offers (44%), Nielsen said. “With that being said,
consumers are taking the role of observer when online: they are on the lookout
for information about the product, and relevant and interesting content may
inspire consumers to take the dialogue offline. It’s crucial to understand the
link between the two — digital and real life — and what triggers having a broader
discussion about the brand,” Temple added. “Clearly, real life
conversations remain consumers’ comfort zone; a way to share true emotions with
their community. When impressed by the experience, they can easily become your
brand ambassadors.” Overall, more consumers
talk about brands than post about them on social media with 86% of South
African consumers preferring to talk about brands in real life versus the 63%
who tapped. “These differences have a
direct impact on the efficiency of marketing campaigns,” Temple said. “Knowing
who the most probable influencers are will help in sharpening brands’ social
media campaigns.” [1] Trust to usage index is the ratio of consumers who use the media most often to trusting the media most often Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.