As we jump into the new decade, it’s become apparent that the more things change, the more the questions stay the same. What do audiences care most about? What about the youth? How are they engaging? What do we do to ensure that the market engages with our brand or platform? Radio needs to take a bow and we need to acknowledge its
resilience. We’re seeing radio consumption remain consistent and even growing
worldwide. It still remains one of the biggest platforms for music discovery.
In addition, radio is the perfect complimentary medium to integrate other
content platforms into its eco-system. Jacaranda
FM
has the biggest radio website in the country, and it remains driven by
its core broadcasting platform. However, it enables the brand to engage
audiences on a variety of platforms, including on air, created content on the
website and social media, podcasting on Jacpod, as well as the Jacaranda Mall, its e-commerce offering. Radio has a personal
relationship with its audience, which it is able to extend onto other
platforms. Streaming is also seeing great growth in South Africa. The
more connected we become as a country, coupled with advancements in data
prices, the more streaming will thrive. So, where is this all going? We’ve seen a really interesting development in the last
couple of years relating to content consumption. Audio. Is. Exploding! Whether
it’s radio, streaming, podcasting, voice assistance, smart speakers or the
connected car, audio is the main vehicle for engagement in new technologies.
Audio platforms allow audiences to engage seamlessly, and without having to
divert their attention from anything else that they might be busy with at that
time. Audio consumption is at an all-time high, and it’s driven
by the youth. Studies show that Gen Z listen to audio for more than 18 hours per week. Radio remains strong, and
podcasting is taking up precious minutes from video rather than traditional
radio. Brands are following suit at a rapid rate, with many implementing
specific audio strategies to drive engagement and sales. Even media
entrepreneur and founder media holding company, VaynerX founder, Gary Vaynerchuk, has adopted Sonic Branding as part of his strategy. Another consideration for engaging with the next
generation of audiences is the authenticity of the message. Once again, radio
has a massive advantage here as authenticity is and has always been at its
core. It’s real people, talking about real things, playing the music that the
audience relates to. The fact that radio remains live, local, and free means
that, especially in the South African context, it will continue to engage
audiences, in particular Gen Y and Gen Z. Fine, but what does it all mean? It means that we all have a responsibility to embrace
audio. If you decide to not engage your audience on an auditory basis, you
cannot expect to engage with Gen Z. The demand for content is ever-increasing, and it shows no signs of slowing down any time soon. Sure, the preferred platform or medium might shift, but it is once again audio’s turn to drive innovation. Hennie Myburgh Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.