With the announcement that Alex Okosi is leaving VCN Africa and BET International, ViacomCBS Networks International (VCNI) has announced that at the end of February 2020, Craig Paterson and Monde Twala will take over as co-general managers of ViacomCBS Networks Africa. As co-head of the business, Twala will focus on content, creative, editorial and marketing across all VCNI brands. Twala is currently the VP of ViacomCBS Networks Africa’s BET, Youth & Music brands and is responsible for driving the development and growth of iconic music, youth and entertainment brands BET, MTV, MTV Base and MTV Music24, across the African continent. Monde joined the company in 2016 after nearly 20 years’ experience in the South African broadcasting and media industry. Paterson will be responsible for all corporate functions, including business development and strategy. Currently senior VP of business operations for ViacomCBS Networks Africa, Paterson is responsible for driving strategic growth and business opportunities in Africa. Prior to this role, Paterson was responsible for operations and finance for multimedia brands MTV, MTV Music24, Nickelodeon, Nick Toons, Nick Junior, MTV Base, BET and Comedy Central on the African continent. He spent nearly five years at Viacom beginning in 2011 as VP of operations and finance in Africa and returned to the company in 2018 as senior VP  of business operations in Africa. “I am delighted that Craig and Monde will take over leadership in this important market,” said Raffaele Annecchino, president of ViacomCBS Networks Europe Middle East, Africa and Asia. “Both have worked with Alex for years, which coupled with their expertise will ensure a seamless transition. Craig and Monde are experts in their respective areas and in addition to incredible business acumen, have demonstrated leadership and collaborative excellence throughout each of their careers and tenures with the company.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.