It doesn’t take a rocket scientist to know
that our economic state is dire and as a result, marketing budgets are tight.
The situation is exacerbated by ongoing lockdown periods, and Covid-19 lacks a
sell-by date. How are media agencies adapting to challenges and opportunities
during a time of unprecedented upheaval? 
Sandra Gordon and Adelaide McKelvey spoke to a group of media agency leaders
for their views. Leadership
and the battle to sustain productivity and company culture Global reports indicate that business
leaders are grappling with the management and motivation of staff. Underlying
fears created by business closures and staff retrenchments are compounded by
very limited human interaction due to ongoing lockdown policies adopted by
government and company leaders. In South Africa the position is worsened
due to a flagging economy, political uncertainty and citizens facing a bleak
future. Ironically employees are working longer
hours from home and are suffering from a lack of human contact with clients,
media owners and their agency colleagues. Chris Botha Group CEO of Park Advertising
is encouraging staff to say no to lengthy Zoom meetings and manage their time
and availability more effectively. He expects employees to ‘get the job done’ and
reports their client relationship scores are up by 15 to 20% in 2020. He and
Byron John, MD of Vizeum Johannesburg, are not in favour of measuring productivity
by the amount of times PC keys are clicked by staff working remotely. John has
a number of GenZ staff who value the flexibility of working from home or coming
into the office and he prefers measuring productivity through the delivery of projects
on time. Richard Lord, media and ops director at
Meta Media, reports that thanks to excellent IT systems, staff have adapted
well to working remotely. “We have daily team huddles via video to ensure no
balls are dropped.” These sessions have helped them stave off “the inevitable
loneliness that comes from being confined to a home office for eight hours a
day, every day”. He finds himself in back-to-back Zoom meetings doesn’t give
him the time to digest the discussion before moving onto the next one. Alphabet Soup founder and MD, Nikki Lewin,
has been “up and running since July”. Staff work flexi-time, adhere to
protocols and are happy to be back with colleagues. Sean Clarke, COO at Park
Advertising, reports differently. “People are our business; our office in Johnnesburg
was built to accommodate interaction internally and with media owners and
clients. Over the past months we are lucky to have 10 staff in the office on
any one day.” Online conversations are vertical not
lateral across client teams, so sharing of ideas does not take place. He
highlights that nearly all virtual meeting requests are for one hour and the
day is filled moving from one to the next. The increase in time pressure and
uncertainty of operating remotely has resulted in The MediaShop employing the
services of psychologists to assist employees who are suffering from work and
personal stress. Ebony + Ivory have done the same,
introducing anger management, life and business skills training. Managing
director Paul Middleton comments on the need for experienced and skilled
client-facing and back room support staff. “They must be active at getting
stuff done and I need to trust them to deliver, I only read client emails and
my 18-hour days are full.”  He concedes
that while delivering growth of 20% this year, the model is not sustainable and
building client trust has to be shared among the top team. On the job mentoring may have suffered
during lockdown but is widely considered a crucial element in staff skills
development. Both Middleton and John measure hours spent and recognise staff
members who achieve high rates of success. Botha cites his most critical challenge as
“how do we build a virtual culture when the office becomes a desk at home and
the employee is tempted to go for the highest job offer?”  Many agencies use culture as a
differentiation tactic; in the case of The MediaShop, this has played a major
role in their business success, with communication a key component. Media
owners encouraged to deliver to briefs while maintaining relationships remotely There is deterioration in relationships
attributable to the unforeseen difficulty in keeping regular contact over the
past eight months. Although virtual meetings have provided a useful link in
communicating, they are not ideal and should not be seen as a replacement for
human interaction. Celia
Collins, director of Amplifi – part of the
Dentsu Group – says staff keen on
meeting are making it happen and media owner interaction is happening albeit
intermittently. However, she has seen an increase in ‘bullying’ of agency staff
and clients. “We understand these are difficult times and our challenge is to
manage the level of desperation we see in some sales people.” She is fearful of
media owners resorting to working in silos and not delivering “what is right
for the client”. “We need to have the skills to analyse media
owner proposals up front and if not happy, to kick back.” In other words be the
agency person who says no if the sales pitch isn’t right and be clear on what
is lacking. Avoid the awful to and fro nagging that ensues and often includes clients
who are irritated by the interjection. Botha highlights the issue of sales staff
who in the past “strolled around the agency and didn’t engage in any meaningful
way” with his staff. It is hoped that during lockdown, what agencies
experienced will become obvious employers who are encouraged to take
appropriate action. Lewin says sales people have witnessed multiple
retrenchment programmes and their colleagues losing jobs; the turnaround of sales
staff directly impacts on her team’s ability to deliver client proposals.  To her, good relationships are a factor in
securing face-time with her and her team, but she warns it should not be wasted
as the pace is frenetic and client demands have increased. Lord agrees that his staff miss the day to
day interaction which has “resulted in media owners not always fully
understanding our clients’ needs and objectives”. This has led to frustration
on both sides with “proposals not always being relevant”. The agency is working
on an engagement plan “which includes sharing of information and knowledge from
both sides, to ensure solutions presented are relevant and media owners feel
like a valuable part of our eco-system”. Lwandile Qokweni, CEO of Wavemaker is blunt
in his assessment of staff at both agencies and owners. “Those who weren’t
working in the past aren’t now and we know who they are. Media owners must be
flexible and contact should be constant as clients are moving quickly.” During
lockdown, the level of red tape experienced by agencies has risen alarmingly and
potential deals are being shifted to competitors who are nimble. “Creative and
well packaged proposals will get attention but don’t waste time selling me the
same thing every week.” All participants in the session agreed
different skills sets are required (such as the ability to sell across
platforms and add value to proposals not merely discounts). Overall client and
agency expectations of media owner staff have risen and survival of the fittest
will see only the smartest rise to the top. Both Qokweni and Middleton suggest no time
for sympathy exists and call for media owner bosses to pay special attention to
the lack of professionalism both among sales people and admin staff. Red tape
is a no-no and often prevents deals from happening. Mohamed Paruk, trading
operations manager at GroupM, is frustrated by the lack of flexibility, red
tape and internal processes delaying sign off and processing of deals. John
agrees “Sales service is not being taken as seriously as it could be. There
should be continuous measurement of service and efficacy.” Media owners who have organised informative
and engaging webinars are recognised as thinking differently and remaining in
contact. However excluding certain agency staff from registering (by choice or
through using outdated data bases) has soured perceptions. Sune Beyers MD of Mindshare SA, recommends owners
use dry runs to check content, presentation and tech issues to enhance impact.
Both she and Collins are not surprised at the success of online platforms such
as Google and Facebook in attracting ad spend as it is “an easier currency to
sell to clients” and their sales teams “are collaborators who have worked very
well remotely”. The MOST Awards currently use six broad categories
to measure media owner efficacy: knowledge of client brands, service delivery
(sales and admin), innovation, knowledge of their own brands and involvement.
Those that tick these boxes are likely to rise to the top despite the current
environment, those that don’t may falter. Sandra Gordon and Adelaide McKelvey, veterans of the media business, work with Geo Councellors, a business providing mentoring and bespoke training for businesses and individuals. Geo Counsellors, a formalised online mentoring platform, addresses the need to support specialised skills in a workplace specifically, but not limited to, young professionals (predominantly Millennials and Gen Zs), and or new entrepreneurs. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.