It has been
forensically proven by private investigator Wouter de Swardt of Fox Forensics
Private Investigators that the story and the book about the Lost Boys of Bird
Island was a complete and utter hoax. Mark Minnie duped Chris Steyn and the two
of them then hoaxed Maryna Lamprecht – the non-fiction editor of Tafelberg Publishers
and the complete board of directors of Media24 and Naspers. The onus was
nevertheless on Media24 to undertake a proper and compelling due diligence.
Nobody did any due diligence. It is of telling interest that after more than 30 years since the alleged crimes and nearly two years since the book was published, NOT A SINGLE WITNESS OR VICTIM HAS COME FORWARD to testify. After nearly two years of investigation by the SAPS Special Child Protection unit led by high-ranking officers, they too have not found a single piece of evidence or witness or victim. ~ Johan Victor, Wouter de Swardt and Koos van der Merwe On 29 March 1987 I, as an SABC TV News reporter and other media representatives, stood outside the home of John Wiley, the National Party MP for Simon’s Town after the news broke that he had committed suicide. A contemporary of mine at the time was the Cape Times crime reporter, Chris Steyn, who, 12 years later, was to publish her memoir, ‘Publish and be damned – Two decades of scandals’, which I considered a valuable addition to our media history annals. Fast forward to 3 March this year and NB Publishers, a subsidiary of Tafelberg, announced it was withdrawing a book that Steyn had co-authored with a former policeman from Port Elizabeth, Mark Minnie. It apologised to former National Party finance minister Barend du Plessis to whom the book, The Lost Boys of Bird Island, alluded (offering a R3 million settlement for his “pain and suffering”). In a press release, Media24 said it acknowledged that the allegations were “unfounded”. Now a website has been created which exposes all the falsehoods in the book in clinical detail and you can find it here. The events which led to the creation of the website can be found here. The book alleged that Du Plessis and Wiley along with former NP defence minister
Magnus Malan had been part of a paedophile ring, which had used SADF Puma
helicopters to ferry teenage boys to Bird Island where they were sexually
abused. There were three facets of the book which, to my mind, should have
immediately raised red flags. I remember thinking at the time that the claims in the book had as little
veracity as the Sunday Timesclaim
that SARS was running a brothel. For me, the most startling revelation in the book is contained on page 3,
point 64 of lawyer Johan Victor’s open letter to the CEO
and board of Naspers. Victor writes that three days before the launch of the book, Minnie emailed
Steyn and Lamprecht with the following concern: “We have no concrete evidence to the
effect that any of the three ministers sexually molested a victim. We need a
victim to come forward and make an accusation followed by an identification.” Despite that, the book was launched with attendant publicity in all the
Naspers newspapers and sent to bookshops to sell. What on earth were they thinking? One can only assume that they were reassured by a legal opinion obtained
by Tafelberg which pointed out that Malan and Wiley were dead, Du Plessis did
not have the money required for protracted litigation and the law did not
enable the families of these men to be granted financial recompense for the
traumatic impact the book would inevitably have on their lives. While that might have been valid in theory, it was devoid of morality and
empathy and it did not take into account the ensuing outrage in the Afrikaans
community. On 26 March last year the editor of Beeld, Barnard Beukman, wrote that
the book was a low point in the history of South African publishing. Lawyers Johan Victor and Dr Koos van der Merwe (the former IFP member of
parliament) and private investigator Wouter de Swardt teamed up to  expose the falsehoods in the book. The turning point came when De Swardt was appointed by the Foundation for
Human Rights to investigate the claims in the book. In August 2018 he travelled to Port Elizabeth with forensic investigator Dr David Klatzow to investigate the suicide of Mark Minnie and the central claim in the book, that Malan, Wiley and Du Plessis has been part of a paedophile ring operating in the city. Minnie, nine days after the book was launched, was found dead along with a suicide note. Subsequently, De Swardt, Victor and van der Merwe created the Fight for Justice website. De Swart’s report to the
Foundation for Human Rights sets out in stark detail the sequence of events
leading up to Minnie’s suicide and comprehensively rebuts the claims made in
the book. Particularly telling is the affidavit of one of the main figures in the
book, Thomas Case, which De
Swardt was instrumental in procuring. Equally telling is the affidavit of Dr Andrew Hillock, the doctor
who was alleged to have operated on the on the boy supposedly shot in the anus
by Magnus Malan. The section of website headlined The Lessons’ is trenchant
and apposite given the keenly awaited findings of the SANEF-initiated Satchwell Commission
investigation into media ethics and
credibility. The Lost Boys of Bird Island negated two of the founding pillars of
ethical journalism – do least harm and when in doubt, leave out. For too long South African media companies have operated on the premise
that they are unlikely to be sued and, if they were sued and lost, the amount
they would have to pay in recompense was derisory. The multi-million settlement by Naspers with Barend du Plessis and the
families of John Wiley and Magnus Malan will have no significant impact on the
company’s bottom line. The reputational damage it has experienced, however, particularly
in one of its core target markets, the Afrikaans community, is incalculable. Cognizance should also be taken of the devastating impact that mass media
lies have on the victims who are the targets of such scurrilous journalism. As the Lost Boys of Bird Island website points out, despite the
multi-million rand settlement by Naspers, Barend du Plessis will still be left
out of pocket because this money did not fully compensate him for the legal and
medical expenses he incurred as a victim of the lies propagated about him by a
media company. A similar situation has just occurred in the US where Fox News has paid an
undisclosed amount to the parents of a murdered employee of the Democratic Party,
Seth Rich, after falsely claiming in a
politically-motivated smear campaign that he had been instrumental in leaking
Hillary Clinton’s emails to WikiLeaks. In South Africa, such abuses will occur for so long as our jurisprudence
imposes derisory fines on those who abuse their media influence with impunity –
precisely because there is no significant financial deterrent. In January the EFF issued a one sentence apology and paid Anton Harber
and SABC journalist Thandeka Gqubule R40 000 each after falsely accusing
them of having been apartheid-era security police spies. Given the lives of luxury to which the
EFF party leaders are accustomed, they probably considered it money well spent. What the verdict in this court case reveals is that the similar accusation by Iqbal Survé and Adri Senekal de
Wet against amaBhugane’s Sam Sole were just as false and just as
defamatory. They each have a chapter in the recently published
book by Alexander Parker and Tim Richman,
‘50 People who f***ed up South Africa – the Lost Decade’. There is some comfort to be drawn from the Lost Boys of Bird Island saga apart from the fact that De Swardt is unequivocal in saying that Steyn and publisher Lamprecht were duped by Minnie and that comfort is the fact that members of the media fraternity were quick to raise the alarm. Jacques Pauw published an article debunking the
book’s allegations and between August 2018 and March this year the former CEO
of Naspers Newspapers, Hennie van
Deventer, wrote eight letters to the Afrikaans press expressing his outrage about
the book. Hopefully such matters will be addressed when the SANEF-commissioned Satchwell report on unethical journalism and media credibility announces the outcome of its investigation and makes known its recommendations on what it considers effective counter-measures. Ed Herbst is a retired journalist and media commentator. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.