Facebook recently shared its global Year in Review and top moments, now it’s sharing some of the ways South Africans used its platforms to make this year a little less lonely, and feel a bit more connected. The Facebook Year in Review will give you a glimpse into some of the key social media moments of 2020, sorted into themes to offer context into the ways people shared and experienced them. New for 2020 is our curated top Pop Culture Moments, which highlights some of the most fun, wild and lighter moments that brought a little bit of levity to a crazy year. These much-talked about moments generated some of the highest levels of interaction across our apps, and include the following in South Africa: “During a year filled with challenges and social distancing, our Year in Review captures the multitude of creative and inspiring ways our communities have come together through the Facebook family of apps,” said Kezia Anim-Addo, head of communications for Sub-Saharan Africa at Facebook. “No matter where in the world you live, the shared experiences of 2020 brought us together, even while we were apart, with digital platforms helping us to stay connected.” Methodology The top themes for this year’s Year in Review were determined by looking at the top 20 moments of the year, and identifying commonalities across those moments and the ways people used different product features and tools, such as Fundraisers and Groups. The top moments of this year’s Year in Review were determined by capturing the top single-day moments throughout the year, and finding the top ways people used Facebook’s apps to come together around these moments. Data reflects activity from 1 January to 31 October 2020. You can view the Global 2020 Year in Review and Top Pop Culture Moments here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.