With government being painfully soft on policing those who break Covid-19 rules, is it not time for the news media to go beyond simply covering the pandemic as a news story? The tragic deaths of Dawn Lindberg and Gee Six Five as a direct result of the virus this week, and something a local doctor posted on social media, made me wonder whether the media could do more. The doctor
posted this on social media under his own name: “One of my patients walked
around a mall this afternoon without a mask. You sir are not just idiot, you’re
a selfish idiot! I really hope that you don’t require an ICU bed in the weeks
ahead – there might not be one! ” Maybe more
doctors should become this aggressive. Meanwhile,
walking through another mall this week, I noticed that everyone was wearing a
mask but at least half of them had masks only covering their mouths. I was
tempted to grab each one by the lapels and shout in their faces. Most would
probably react by beating me to a pulp and telling me to mind my own business
because they’re wearing masks and not breaking the law. Trouble is, it is my
business. It’s my family they are potentially killing. I would
like to see the news media make unsold advertising inventory available to show,
in graphic detail, the horrors of death by Covid-19. To ram these pictures home
on TV, newspapers, billboards and especially in shopping malls. Of course, the
ubiquitous, politically correct Mother Grundies will complain bitterly that
these would be shocking, offensive and frighten little children. That would
be the point. To frighten South Africans into wearing masks over their mouths
AND noses and to maintain social distancing. Right now
they are not. Covid-19 is something that happens to other people. And it is
no good waiting for a vaccine either. South Africa is going to have to wait for
months before vaccines arrive and then it will take months if not years to get
everyone vaccinated. The mass media can make a difference. Giving away unused ad space will cost nothing. And there are dozens of advertising agencies that would relish producing a no-holds-barred campaign for free. Chris Moerdyk (@chrismoerdyk ) is a marketing analyst and advisor and owner of Moerdyk Marketing with many years of experience in marketing and the media as well as serving as non-executive director and chairman of companies. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.