The Media Online’s weekly round up of moves in
media. This week’s BIG move: Omar Essack steps down as CEO of Primedia Group Omar Essack will step down as CEO of the Primedia Group at the end of March 2020. The Group said it was reviewing its leadership requirements as it settles into a “new management structure”. That’s the word from the broadcasting and out of home media company’s chairman, Phumzile Langeni. “Omar has played a critical leadership role at Primedia, steering us through a challenging time for the industry, both locally and internationally, while successfully driving a repositioning of the business, first as CEO of Primedia Broadcasting, and subsequently as Group CEO,” she said. “On behalf of the board I would like to sincerely thank Omar for his service and wish him every success in his new endeavours,” Langeni said. She added that she had agreed to “undertake a more hands-on role as we make this leadership transition to ensure we continue to deliver on our strategic objectives”. Essack will in future be focused on writing,
training and consulting projects and on emerging opportunities at the
confluence of media and technology. “I have really enjoyed my time at Primedia. The
board backed my vision of creating an accountable and responsive media company
and I was able to put in place a data analytics practice whose strategy is on a
par with our peer group in Europe and the US,” he said. “The Group will yield
the benefits of this approach over the next 18 months and I will be delighted
to watch it come to fruition.” People moves Neo Mashigo appointed chairman of the Creative Circle Chief creative officer of the M&C Saatchi
Group South Africa, Neo Mashigo, is the new chairman of Creative Circle, taking
over from TBWA\Hunt\Lascaris’ CCO, Peter Khoury, Mashigo will hold the position for a period of
two years, having previously served on the executive committee. The Creative Circle is a non-profit organisation
dedicated to promoting and maintaining creativity in the South African
advertising industry by inspiring the transformation of product, people and
perception through the power of creativity. “It’s a privilege to be appointed as chairperson
and I’m excited to embrace the opportunity of driving the Creative Circle’s
efforts in promoting creativity as a business resource,” said Mashigo, whose
position on the role of creativity is clear. “I believe that creativity should
be leading the charge in the effort of solving South Africa’s many challenges.” In 2019, Mashigo was honoured as Industry Leader
of the Year at the 2019 FM AdFocus Awards, while he is also a former
Chairperson and current board member of the Loeries. Trinity Mohlamme joins The Media Connection board After a successful and award-winning career in the music industry, fashion retail and entertainment in the 1990s, Trinity Mohlamme joined Alex FM in Johannesburg. Now he has been appointed to The Media Connection’s board of directors. “It is an absolute pleasure and privilege to have Trinity on the
executive team,” said the company’s founder, Judy Milne. “He is arguably one of
the most knowledgeable brand strategists in the industry at present. He has an
almost freakish ability to understand brand behaviour, consumer behaviour and
then find a way to glue the two together. “He exemplifies the company’s vision of ‘Connecting Brands, making
a difference’ and adds a vivid new enthusiasm to our already cemented culture
of integrity, access, and thriving in the industry through experience and
insights driven forward thinking,” Milne added. For  more, click here. Dylan Rogers departs as Business Traveller Africa
Editor Future Group has announced the departure of Dylan
Rogers as editor of Business Traveller Africa magazine to pursue new and
exciting projects. He joined the Future Group in April 2011. “Dylan
joined us nine years ago with a strong background in news and content and
quickly got to grips with the intricacies of the South African travel market,
as well as embracing the client-facing aspect I envisioned for the role,” said
publisher Richard Lendrum. “As a result, Business Traveller Africa has enjoyed
some of its most commercially-successful years under his stewardship.” Rogers will be pursuing a number of independent
projects in the content space, which remains his passion, as well as continuing
with his MC work and role as contributor and sports anchor on Hot919’s Big
Jo’burg Drive. WASPA invites nominations for board Nominations are open for four of WASPA’s
seven 2020/2021 board positions. The Wireless Application Service Providers’
Association said while nominees do not have to be affiliated with a WASPA
member, WASPA members in good standing elect the Association’s Board members
after receiving written nominations outlining nominees’ industry-related
experience, interests and other pertinent information. WASPA’s mission is to create a fair and
equitable mobile landscape that values consumers while advancing the interests
of the plethora of small, medium and large mobile firms that make the WASP
industryin South Africa. In terms of WASPA’s Constitution, four of the
Association’s current board members are required to stand down at this year’s
March AGM. The remaining three will each serve for one additional year, until
the 2021 AGM. If you are personally interested in
serving on the WASPA Board, or if you would like to nominate someone else to
serve, please email secretariat@waspa.org.za by no later than 29
February 2020. Please include an abbreviated half-page biography as well as a
succinct motivation for wanting to serve on the WASPA Board. Business moves Fast Company Symposium’s Crowdfunding Challenge to assist start-ups
raise funding In response to the shortage of funding options for some of South Africa’s yet to be realised innovations, the Fast Company Most Innovative Companies Symposium – technology and innovation for the advancement of society – has invited Uprise.Africa to collaborate with it, and help a start-up grow. The alliance will assist
as yet unfunded innovators attending the event, who will have the opportunity
to pitch their inventions to the team, for a coveted spot on the Uprise.Africa
crowdfunding platform. The global tech and
innovation start-up ecosystems are rich picking fields for investors looking to
get on board with innovations that have the hallmarks of being the next ‘big
thing.’ Significant returns are available for those who get in quickly and when
the lucky break happens. South Africa (and the
greater African continent) has had its fair share of winners over the years and
in 2020, as the country and continent continue to leapfrog legacy technologies,
there is a stream of opportunities for the savvy to throw their money
behind. Uprise.Africa will join
Fast Company at the Symposium on 5 March, at the CTICC, (limited free delegate passes are still available),
along with a number of young companies (pre-chosen by the team at Fast Company
SA), for a Crowdfunding Challenge pitch session, which will land one of them
the opportunity to raise the necessary crowdfunding to take them to the next
level. Time remains for
start-ups to submit their pitches to zurina.morgan@fastcompany.co.zafor consideration on the day, and young entrepreneurs are all invited to
attend the event. Hoorah Digital wins Nestlé content
business account Hoorah
Digital has won the account to build Nestlé’s global content studio for Africa.
Nestlé’s ask of their new partner was the capability, in line with their global
mandate, to internalise digital content. Hoorah Digital demonstrated the best
understanding of Nestlé’s global in-house content structures, and how this can
be adapted to local requirements. “With
this move Nestle have demonstrated that they are at the forefront of a new way
of doing business, one that understands the importance of being hyper-agile in
an increasingly digital world,” said Shaune Jordaan, Hoorah Digital’s CEO. With
a focus on content adaptation, trans-creation, translation and rollout of
assets to 23 countries in the East and Southern Africa Region (ESAR) from their
Head Office in Bryanston, Johannesburg, the aim is to build an agile and rapid
content development competence. Ministry of Communications and Digital Technologies
collaborates with Huawei to provide 5G training The Ministry of Communications and Digital
Technologies has collaborated with Huawei Technologies South Africa to provide
5G training to a group of 100 final year Information Technology (IT) students
at the Walter Sisulu University (WSU) campuses in Mthatha, Butterworth and East
London. The 5G training is designed to enable students to understand 5G protocol standardisation, key industry applications, ecosystems, network architecture and key technologies. It forms part of the Minister’s multi-stakeholder collaboration of ‘Building A Capable 4IR Army’ and will be rolled out at other identified institutions across the country. Following the Mthatha training, Minister Stella
Ndabeni-Abrahams will also conduct a local stakeholder engagement with the
business sector, academia, media, traditional leaders and faith-based
organisations; amongst others. This engagement session seeks to unpack the
State of the Nation Address (SoNA) and engage on pertinent sector issues that
will enable them to harness opportunities presented by emerging technologies. HaveYouHeard
benefits from organic growth Cape Town-based full-service agency, HaveYouHeard,
which kicked off the new year signing five new clients, has continued along the
growth path in February by adding another new client, Virgin Active, and
landing new projects from three existing clients. The agency, which has satellite offices in
Johannesburg and London, added Absa, Campari Africa, Jameson Global, Jeep
Clothing and Trotters UK to its client list at the close of 2019. Additional work taken on board since then include a
project for Virgin Active (radio, digital content and digital out-of-home
production); a contract renewed with Old Mutual to manage its content hub, AMPD
Studios, after exceeding targets in 2019; the corporate identity refreshment
and internal campaign creation for Innovoice, a division of Old Mutual Personal
Finance; and new content development and  influencer strategy for Martell. rooi
rose is proud to announce the start of season 3 of rrRADIO in February 2020 rrRADIO,
rooi rose and Caxton Magazine’s first, free Afrikaans podcast channel for
women, is expanding its programming for a second time, since its launch in June
2019. rrRADIO
offers clients a new innovative and cost-effective way to connect to the
Afrikaans market and sought-after rooi rose audiences.  “Over the first two
seasons, rrRADIO downloads and
impressions have grown organically at an exponential rate and we foresee that,
during season 3, it will rise to 40 000+ impressions per month”, saids
rrRADIO executive producer and rooi rose deputy editor, Hannelie Diedericks. Season 3 will see the launch of two brand new series: Lam in Wolfsklere, a serial fiction series, and Ons diere & hul giere, a new pet care series hosted by Ilse Salzwedel. Making
moves M&C Saatchi Abel supports SA survey on
diversity in the industry Diversity of Thought is something that M&C
Saatchi Abel believes in and pursues actively every day and so the agency has
pledged its support for the SheSays Survey on Gender Representation, a
first-ever look at gender diversity in the South African advertising and
marketing sector. The agency is also the headline sponsor of the next SheSays
event in Cape Town. Led by the Cape Town chapter of SheSays, the
world’s largest network for women in creative industries, the survey engages
the local industry on the advancement of gender representation and diversity
within the creative sectors. “Although the advertising industry has made
strides to diversify over the past number of years, it is vital to see an
organisation such as SheSays actually working to quantify these changes,” said
Mike Abel, founding partner and chief executive officer of M&C Saatchi
Abel. The SheSays survey, done in collaboration with
Kantar, collects data anonymously, with agencies having until 28 February 2020
to take part. The SheSays Cape Town Get Unstuck will be held at Nasdak, 26th Floor, Media24 Centre, 40 Heerengracht St, on 10 March 2020, starting at 17h30. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.