This week’s BIG move: Marc Taback is the new group managing director of Mediology Marc Taback (47) has been
appointed group managing director at media and online marketing agency,
Mediology, with effect from 1 March 2020 Working closely with founder
and CEO, Ana Carrapichano, Taback will be based in the agency’s Johannesburg
office while also directing its Cape Town office and growing national footprint
as well as its drive into Africa and abroad. “As we enter our fourteenth
year, we are poised to grow our product offering and expand aggressively with
the aim of being a leading media independent and marketing hot shop. Marc’s
deep understanding of the media industry and his exceptional track record as a
business winner who consistently delivers results, combine all the qualities we
need to achieve our goals,” said Carrapichano, who said that after interviewing
many candidates, she knew Taback was the man for the agency’s next ambitious
phase. Taback said joining Mediology
after 17 years as CEO of Initiative Media where he was an integral part of the
success of the business, was a natural fit. People moves Dr Koekemoer back at AAA School of
Advertising With
nearly five decades of experience in marketing and advertising, both within the
industry and educational space, Dr Ludi Koekemoer was recently named the new acting
CEO of AAA School of Advertising. Koekemoer
is no stranger to AAA as he led the organisation as CEO for 15 years before
retiring in 2015. The institution has since changed, with new owners, the
adoption of new digital technologies and a whole new outlook of catering to the
millennial generation and beyond. “The
one thing that remains unchanged is the purpose and founding ethos of the
institution. To continue to deliver on our brand promise – which is to produce
students ready for the world of work. To build on the successes of the past, a
decision was made to bring someone on board with considerable expertise coupled
with brand knowledge. The institution’s history and unrivaled industry
reputation will be embraced by Ludi. AAA is, therefore, pleased to announce Dr.
Ludi Koekemoer’s return,” the educational institution said in a statement. The
AAA School of Advertising boasts 30 years of producing top advertising,
marketing, design and creative talent in South Africa. Visit
to register for your preferred course, and join us to shape the world. SuperSport gears up for The Match in Africa Seasoned tennis
specialist Hendrien Grové will spearhead SuperSport’s Friday broadcast of the
much-awaited Match in Africa, the showdown in Cape Town between superstars
Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. Grové will produce the
four-hour spectacle, including a celebrity match that will be distributed
internationally. Having travelled to
tournaments like Wimbledon, where she has interviewed stars like Federer,
Nadal, Novak Djokovic and the Williams sisters, Grové is looking forward to
being part of what may amount to the biggest event in the history of domestic
tennis. Fittingly, Rob Koenig
will be among the commentators. A former South African tennis professional, he
now commentates on the biggest events in the world, including the Grand Slams.
He will be joined by Jason Goodall, another familiar voice on the ATP World
Tour circuit. Renowned broadcast
anchor Carol Tshabalala, who has been on the big stage for events such as the
FIFA World Cup draw, will be handling things courtside. The local broadcast
will begin at 6.30pm on Friday (SuperSport 1). Business moves SPARK Media launches industry focused Get It
magazine At the end of 2019,
SPARK Media released its first media and advertising industry focused Get It
magazine, modelled on the current popular localised national magazines. Containing profiles of successful captains of the
industry, social pages, suggested reading material for progressive marketers,
competitions and a round-up of SPARK Media news, the publication offers a fun
and informal look into the people and events that drive our industry while
still offering the reader valuable information. “Our media focused launch issue has been shared
among our media agency and client partners and we’re very encouraged with the
feedback we’ve received so far,” said SPARK Media CEO, Gill Randall. “Our next
issue will be released mid-year with a third iteration being shared towards the
end of the year.” ROOTS research showed consumers like the feel of
their favourite magazine in their hands and the opportunity to put it down and
reread at a later stage. “As the local Get It magazines prove to be highly
valued and respected publications that build a sense of community among local
consumers, so too will our trade Get It, as it did in the past, foster this
local media and advertising community of ours,” Randall said. 2019, the year that was for Meta Media Meta Media might be just
over one year old, but it has proved it is a force to be reckoned with. This one-year old agency boasts an impressive
clientele list with the likes of Cell C, Nestle, Capitec Bank, Toyota and City
of Cape Town. In addition to these household brand names, Meta Media recently
scooped the buying portion of the Hollard account. For them media is not just a
“gut feel” process but rather a process of applying a level of science to all
media buys that enables it to get the best ROI for their clients, across all
media platforms. Meta Media is a member of the Nahana Communications Group and is a full-service media agency born in an era of data and technology, built on the premise of creating the agency of the future. Despite being just nine months old at the time, Meta Media placed top three at the 2019 MOST Awards in not one but two categories, namely Full-Service Media Agency of the Year 2019 and Overall Media Agency of the Year 2019. “At Meta Media, we are curious!” said Kagiso Musi,
group managing director at Meta Media. “While it may be a very innocuous
statement, it has a much deeper meaning to us. We believe in digging deeper. We
look deeper to provide solutions based on real insights that give our clients a
different perspective, looking beyond the numbers and looking for the story
behind the story. We use data to justify our decisions and recommendations and
delve deep to understand performance and user behaviour.” Reputation
Mentorship Matters Reputation Matters has
launched a new mentorship service offering. “It’s our vision to be Africa’s go-to reputation
specialists that help businesses to become the business that people want to do
business with,” said Regine le Roux, founder and managing director of
Reputation Matters. “In order for us to get that right, we are empowering
companies to build their own capacity within the reputation management space,” she
added. “Our core focus remains reputation research using
our proprietary tool, the Repudometer. With the reputation mentorship
programme, we’ll be taking it a step further by helping our clients to keep the
momentum going by implementing the recommendations to close the gaps identified
in the research. “We are also targeting entrepreneurs to empower
them to build reputable businesses that people want to do business with right
from the outset of their entrepreneurial journey.” Founders Factory Africa, Standard Bank and
Netcare invest in five new African tech startups. Founders Factory Africa (FFA) has announced it
has accepted five new startups into their Venture Scale programme, which kicked
off on 3 February 2020. The venture development company, along with its
corporate investors Standard Bank and Netcare, have welcomed LocumBase (South
Africa), Bwala Africa (Kenya), Akili Labs (South Africa), FoodLocker (Nigeria)
and EnvisionIt Deep AI (South Africa) to the six-month programme. All five startups have developed product
offerings targeted at the FinTech or HealthTech sectors, and are set for an
aggressive growth strategy, aided by the technical and operational expertise offered
at FFA. Making
moves BONA celebrates love this February Themed #BONALove, the February issue of the
magazine features two variations of couples on its English, isiXhosa, seSotho
and isiZulu covers. “The first cover version is a more mature couple who have
been together for 11 years and just announced their new pregnancy, Salamina
(36) and Tshepo ‘Howza’ Mosese. The other covers feature newlyweds; Senzo
‘Kwesta’ Vilakazi and Yolanda,” said editor Bongiwe Tshiqi. The brand has received quite a lot of applause on
social media for featuring two prominent same sex couples this year. Engaged
couple, Moshe Ndiki and Phelo Bala as well as actresses Mandisa Nduna and
Thishiwe Ziqubu. “Representation is incredibly important to us, and
a brand like BONA has to give an honest reflection of South Africa and the
people who live in it. In keeping with that, we wanted to make sure that we
were fully representative of all sexual orientations,” she said. Anton Botes, general manager at Caxton Magazines
added: “We applaud Bongiwe and her team on an extremely raw look at love at
every stage and every orientation. It’s a remarkable issue that has generated
very welcome conversation.” Biznews to
relaunch successful internship programme Ever since Biznews was born in August 2013, founder
Alec Hogg dreamed of replicating the Moneyweb internship programme which
produced many of South Africa’s top journalists. “It got proper attention two years ago when
California-based Hazel Shore – widow of the FM’s founding editor George Palmer – told me she wanted to
fund an SA financial journalist intern in his memory. At the time Jeanette and I were in London, focused
on our globalisation strategy so were in no position to take on that kind of
responsibility,” Hogg said. “But with that project completed we’re now into
2020, back home and about to move into one of three spanking new WeWork offices
in SA. All of which seemed inconceivable back then.” Now Hogg wants to recruit “the next Felicity
Duncan, Gugu Mfuphi, Bruce Whitfield or Ron Derby”. If you know a young South African who is insatiably
curious, loves to write, is blessed with a voice for radio, understands business
and is desperate to become a journalist, please ask them to send Hogg their CV
and an 800 word (max) letter why they’d be perfect for the Biznews internship
programme. His address is alec@biznews.com. For the Diary Join Red & Yellow school for a
powerful knowledge-sharing session on this hot topic Still unsure of what Design
Thinking is all about? Essentially it’s a methodology that focuses on the consumer (instead of the organisational focus) to discover the problem,
reframe it, drill down to the root cause then test and prototype solutions that
will make a real
difference to real-world challenges. Come enjoy some coffee,
delicious snacks and a value-packed session with Nevo
Hadas from dY/dX who will unpack how businesses can use this critical skill to outperform competitors, capture
new markets and create innovative solutions to ensure
future success and sustainability. Where: When: Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.