EB Inglis is set to become a household name when he joins Kfm 94.5’s new line-up today [24 February 2020]. EB Inglis will follow popular daytime host, Tracey Lange, every weekday in his  new 12 – 3pm show as well as hosting the Weekend Breakfast on Saturdays from 7 – 10am. “I look forward to reintroducing myself to Capetonians at the Western Cape’s biggest radio station. Listeners can look forward to a refreshed sound during their workday while familiar favourites like the seven-in-a-row music marathon every hour feature will remain part of the fabric of my weekday show,” Inglis said. Stephen Werner, Kfm 94.5’s station manager, said storytelling and bold personalities who were “relatable, likeable and speak to the Western Cape were key to why listeners tune into Kfm 94.5. EB is the quintessential ‘guy-next-door’, a homegrown local talent who understands the rhythm of the city. We are extremely excited to welcome EB Inglis to the Kfm family”. ,” s Werner added: “Tracey and EB will work together to provide the perfect soundtrack to your workday with great content, lots of personality and of course, the most music to make you feel great!”. Inglis, a musician, broadcaster and dedicated dad, said it didn’t get bigger than Kfm 94.5. “I’m excited about the chance to grow the lunchtime audience. A big plus to joining the Kfm 94.5 family is the opportunity to tap into my to my radio repertoire by kick-starting Saturdays for the people of the Cape with a healthy mix of sport and lifestyle content.” Kfm 94.5
new line-up (weekdays and Saturdays) to take effect from 24 February 2020: Weekday
line-up: 5 – 6am                       Early Mornings with Liezel van der Westhuizen 6 – 9am                       Kfm Mornings with Darren, Sherlin
and Sibs 9 – 12pm                     Tracey Lange 12 – 3pm                     EB Inglis 3 – 7pm                       The Flash Drive with Carl Wastie 7 – 10pm                     Kfm Nights with Brandon Leigh Saturday line-up 4am – 7am                  Early Weekend Breakfast with
Jonathan Duguid 7am – 10am               Saturday Breakfast with EB Inglis 10am – 2pm               The Kfm Top40 with Carl Wastie 2pm – 6pm                 Feel Great weekends Mitch
Matyana 6 – 9pm                       The BLOC party with
Mamohau Seseane Tune into EB Inglis’ first show on Monday 24 February 2020 from 12 – 3pm. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.