It’s a film that will shock you to your core, a story that will make sense of a lot of the inconveniences that have now become part and parcel of South Africa’s daily lived reality. Acclaimed south African film maker Rehad Desai’s latest work How to Steal A Country is not for the faint-hearted, but it should be compulsory viewing for anyone who lives in this country, indeed any person who sees a future in South Africa, says Henley Business School Africa’s dean and director Jon Foster-Pedley. The Henley Africa community of alumni, students, faculty and friends, were invited to the film’s official premiere at the Killarney Cine Centre earlier this month. “We were invited to co-host this with
Avalon Group, the owners of Cine Centre,” explains Foster-Pedley and it made
sense on so many different levels: the film absolutely underpins – in its
compelling storytelling – the entire ethos of our #Corporate Citizenship
campaign – while AB Moosa, the third generation CEO of the Avalon Group, South
Africa’s third oldest film distribution company, is a Henley MBA graduate
himself.” The film, directed and produced by Desai,
tracks the 10 years of state capture through the voices of the main journalists
who played such a key role unpicking its various strands, culminating in the
#GuptaLeaks, which in turn led to the resignation of Jacob Zuma as president
and the establishment of the Zondo Commission into State Capture. It lays bare the uncomfortable truth that
state capture is neither new nor isolated, that it is a phenomenon that has its
roots far deeper than the Zuma presidency and was aided and abetted,
unequivocally by corporate collusion – and internationally at that. The screening was followed by a panel
discussion moderated by Henley Africa’s John Vlismas and included Desai and
legendary South African journalist and former newspaper editor Ferial Haffejee. “The political class is bankrupt,” said
Desai afterwards, “they don’t have new answers.” The answer, he said, lay in South Africa’s
civil society because there was no political party on the current landscape
that had viable solutions. “We have to build a counter power for
serious social change in this country, otherwise the global power and
institution of capital will crush you.” Foster-Pedley agreed. “Philosopher Yuval Noah Harari speaks of
the failures of the all the great narratives of the 20th century to
create prosperous, caring societies. None of them: liberal democracy, socialism
or fascism have worked, we have to discover that new narrative for us to come
together over to build the kind of society not just that we want to live in,
but which we wish to bequeath to our children and their children.” For Haffajee, who has a major role in the
film helping sketch the narrative of state capture as well as recounting the
hideous and highly personal tactics that were used to try to muzzle her, seeing
the last 10 years presented in one film was a stunning experience. “Wow,” she said, “I’m left wondering how we
managed to live through all of that.” For Vlismas, the message was even simpler:
“it’s not about the president or the cabinet, it’s us. If we don’t act with
ethics, it’s on us.” Desai’s film, Foster-Pedley said, should be
compulsory viewing for all South Africans, but it was especially important for
Henley students in the context of #CorporateActivism. “How to steal a country doesn’t just tell
the story of one politically powerful family selling the birth right of a
nation to another family, it actually shows how state capture was so much more
than just the Zumas and the Guptas and headline events like the wedding party
landing at Waterkloof Air Force Base or the extravaganza at Sun City, but
rather exposes the asphyxiating web of corruption and rent-seeking actively
enabled and encouraged by international corporates chasing profit at the
expense of an entire generation. “Our only defence”, as John Vlismas says, “is
to ensure that each one of us becomes corporate activists, speaking truth to
power in the boardroom on the shop floor and around the braai”. “Hosting this premiere allowed us to
support Rehad and his team’s efforts, but also allowed us to create an event
for the broader Henley family, giving our alumni a chance to reconnect with
each other and faculty, to meet current students and inspire them, but most of
all to recommit to being the best corporate activists that they can be in their
daily lives”. “None of us can ever allow this to happen again, whether in our lifetimes or beyond.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.