World Radio Day offers a chance to reflect on
a medium that touches people’s lives on a daily basis and is evolving far
beyond a frequency. 2020 has been dubbed ‘The Year of Sonic’, not just because
a certain blue hedgehog is staging a comeback, but as a reminder that audio is
bigger than ever. “Radio’s super-power lies in the way it reflects and shapes the lives of the listener in real time,” explains Primedia Broadcasting’s head of insights and analytics, Deborah Schepers. “It connects listeners to their worlds and
helps them navigate their days, either by making sense of a topic, by providing
the soundtrack to their morning, or updating them on news, sport and weather. I
think regional radio is a particularly powerful medium, as it links listeners
to the very heart of their city.” The global resurgence of audio is also being driven by the current podcasting boom, as audiences embrace new on-demand formats. Whether on radio, or via cell phone or smart speaker, audio offers unmatched intimacy and memory encoding. Just think of the instantly recognisable sonic identities of McDonald’s, Coca-Cola, Netflix or Intel. These brands are easily identified in audio-only environments, giving them an automatic advantage. Research by Westwood One has shown that sonic identity and jingles increase purchase intent by 44-58%. Schepers believes that the key to connecting with audiences via audio, no matter the platform, is a memorable sonic brand. “As we celebrate World Radio Day 2020, we need to understand how brands can realise the opportunities offered by audio. A clear, consistent sonic identity is central to making audio work for you. Sonic DNA is the audio equivalent of a visual logo, capturing attention, reinforcing identity and triggering emotional connection to brands.” An astonishing 29.4 million South Africans listen to the radio on an average weekday – a figure that’s growing. 37 million South Africans are listening anytime in the week, with an average time spent listening per day of three hours and 36 minutes. Podcasting is also the fastest growing sector
of media consumption in South Africa, with 19% of South Africans having
listened to a podcast. This is according to the Infinite Dial study conducted
locally in 2019. South Africa was also the country with the
second highest growth in streaming audiences in 2018, with 39% of South
Africans claiming to have listened to online audio in the past month. Audio is a hands-free, eyes-free medium –
available when screens aren’t, and consumed both as a primary activity and
while doing other things (driving, walking, working etc). Research shows that
audio ads work effectively whether they are at the forefront of the listener’s
attention or heard in the background. There are benefits to both conscious and
unconscious processing. Both audio-visual and audio advertising have a
significant effect on helping brands spring to mind more readily in purchasing
situations – a phenomenon called salience. When included in the mix, audio
advertising significantly increases the effects of brand communication over audio-visual
alone, by expanding a brand’s network of mental associations and by increasing
share of mind for a brand. “Radio provides cost-efficient daytime reach
that complements TV’s evening lift, with the added benefit of the trusted
relationships it enjoys with audiences,” says Schepers. Studies by iHEartMedia and Neuro-Insight show
that radio ads consistently outperform TV ads in terms of memory encoding. The
ear is faster than the eye, so much so that the mind processes spoken words 22%
faster than the written word. A heard message is also remembered 4-5 times
longer than a visual image. This is very important information for brands, as
memory encoding is strongly associated with consumer choice and purchase
behaviour. An extensive analysis of data from multiple
agencies in the UK by the Radio Advertising Bureau has shown that if existing
budgets are reallocated from other media to give radio a 20% share of spend,
overall campaign return on investment (ROI) increases by 8% on average. There is even more to gain if budget
weightings are shifted from TV and onto radio. Reallocating budget to give
radio a 20% share of spend resulted in a 19% increase in ROI in the study. This
is not surprising – radio extends campaign reach across the day. When strong
audio links are present, radio will also prompt recall of the TV
commercial. With big and growing reach, the promise of
radio remains: a powerful way to reach audiences in an intimate environment
which they trust and feel a high affinity towards. Radio connects listeners to
news and stories in their cities and communities through personalities who they
love and can relate to. Schepers believes that there’s never been a time for brands to make their mark in the audio landscape: “With audio bigger than ever, 2020 is the year for brands to build out their sonic identities and take full advantage of radio’s ability to make brands grow and increase campaign ROI.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.