How does South African radio hold up against the rest of the world? If I was a schoolteacher, I’d give it a C. It’s not bad; it has some moments of brilliance, but there are often times when I look at it and think: ‘Come on, you’re better than this!’ Comparing where I work now with where I have previously worked, it comes down to this: Radio stations in the United Kingdom listen. They fine tune their approach to their audience, have an intimate understanding of their audience, and they know which songs rate highest among their target audience. It sounds simple enough, so why aren’t South African radio stations doing the same? I’ve worked in radio for almost five years, with the majority of that time spent at East Coast Radio, part of Kagiso Media. Now based in the UK, I joined Smooth Radio, part of Global Media. Global Media is Europe’s largest commercial radio company, with radio assets including Capital, Heart, LBC, Classic FM, Radio X, Gold and Smooth. Its radio stations reach 34 million listeners across the UK – the same number of listeners public broadcaster, the BBC, reaches too. Interestingly,
each of Global Media’s radio stations sound completely different from one
another, each responding to the unique needs of unique audiences, serving – you
guessed it – a unique niche. That’s the primary differentiation that I’ve
noticed since landing in the UK. South African radio stations try to
simultaneously serve multiple audiences, instead of aiming to serve a single
core market. A cursory glance at South African radio stations’ weekend show guide
will highlight this quite clearly. Within a deeply diverse, multicultural nation, South African audiences can feel difficult to serve. The answer, for me, is simple: super serve your one target market, and stop trying to please everyone. Everyone is different when it comes to their music and radio likes and dislikes. Let’s serve them differently. There are, beyond the broad strokes, however, some solid attempts being made at serving niche audiences within the country. In the UK, I’ve
noted a distinct difference between playlists and presenters, as selected for
each radio station. Rather than trying to cram all the big hits and all the
great content in for a broad audience, radio stations carefully select their
playlists and presenters to directly serve the target audience they’re looking
to attract. While they may be my former employer, I have noticed a significant move towards tackling this angle at East Coast Radio. Attempts to serve a more diverse audience don’t always pay off, so it was heartening to see that this KwaZulu-Natal radio station decided to branch out. Launching East Coast Gold as an online radio station that serves music more likely to attract older listeners, Kagiso Media have started to differentiate their daytime radio audiences, and create new platforms for listening pleasure. I would not be surprised to see other radio stations within the Kagiso fold take similar measures in the near future. That’s why I’ve
compiled these brief tips on how programme managers, strategists, and radio
group heads can look towards pivoting their strategies to serve niche
audiences. I’d recommend: In radio, you need to be consistent, and South African radio is far from consistent. It’s too greedy for today, when it should be planning for tomorrow. Stop being broad, be specific. Simon Carter is currently the breakfast producer at Smooth Radio, the UK’s third biggest commercial radio station, which is a part of Global, Europe’s largest radio company. Before joining Smooth, Carter was the executive producer of the award-winning East Coast Breakfast at East Coast Radio in Durban. Twitter: @simonislive Instagram: @simonislive  LinkedIn: Simon James Carter Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.