As the first round of applications for the South African National Editors’ Forum’s (Sanef) Media Relief Fund closed on Friday, the Primedia Group announced it had started a Section 189 process, alerting employees that retrenchments were in the near future. The
news followed a bombshell announcement from Media24 that it was closing certain
titles (mainly those licenced from abroad but also a couple of newspapers) and
was changing the terms of employment of many of its editors and staff. The
media sector, already reeling from the closure of Caxton Magazines and
Associated Media Publishing, once more highlighted the ‘jobs bloodbath’ in an
industry that was already battling with the digital onslaught and massive
declines in advertising spend. Sanef
expressed its concern over the Media24 announcement, saying the continuing
closure of media houses would have a “detrimental effect on our democracy as it
limits the number of sources of information for the public, leads to regression
in media diversity and multiplicity of voices”. It pointed
out that since Covid-19, the “process of newsgathering has transformed
completely, and this element of personal danger is one of the most troubling
changes for journalists. SANEF believes that the risks facing journalists remain
unacceptably high for most, and tragically it has claimed the lives of some”. Then came
the news from the Primedia Group, and the industry forum again noted its worry
over “the ongoing
waves of retrenchments at media houses across the country – now also taking
place at Primedia. Primedia includes 702, KFM and Cape Talk as well as national
news brand Eyewitness News (EWN). The Primedia Group has 786 fulltime
employees, including 323 at Primedia Broadcasting, which is the largest
division. The media company has not announced how many employees will be
affected”. The public
broadcaster, still battling to find its feet after years of mismanagement,
tried to start retrenching workers as far back as late 2018, but in January
2019 abandoned the process after pressure from government, unions and political
parties. At the time, it proposed
retrenchments of 981 permanent staffers and over 1 200 freelancers. It promised
to conduct a skills audit first, expected to take around 14 months. But in June 2020, staff cuts were
firmly back on the table. City Press reported
that the ANC allegedly called SABC bosses, GCEO Madoda
Mxakwe and board chairperson Bongumusa Makhathini, to Luthuli House to explain their
decision. Mxakwe is said to have presented the results of the skills audit,
revealing that almost 800
employees were mismatched to their job profile qualifications. Nevertheless, opposition parties –
particularly the Democratic Alliance – want more information and have called
for SABC staffers to give their views on retrenchments to Parliament. The
Communications and Digital Technologies Committee is meeting from 21-22 July to
discuss among other issues, the retrenchments process at the SABC. “The DA had
requested that the public broadcaster’s staff be invited to provide their
perspective regarding the retrenchments process and that two days be set aside
to hear from both management and staff,” said the party’s shadow minister of
communications, Phumzile van Damme. “It appears
our request has been rejected without explanation. Hearing both sides of the
story would have allowed for Parliament to have a full picture of the process.” Van Damme said the committee would, in normal times, have conducted an
oversight visit to the SABC to hear staff grievances. “Lockdown does not mean that rigorous oversight can
fall by the wayside, it means Parliament must be creative. A virtual meeting
with representatives of SABC staff would have been apt,” she said. She pointed
out that the SABC had informed Parliament last month that a R700 million
reduction in employee costs would be needed for it to break even. “It is tragic
that during a global pandemic, in the middle of winter SABC staff are having to
deal with the possibility of losing their jobs.  It is not mere ‘numbers’,
that are being cut but the livelihoods of living, breathing and feeling human
beings. It is important that this handled with sensitivity, and all staff grievances
thoroughly ventilated,” she added. “Also not
helpful is politicking about the retrenchments. The ANC reportedly held a
meeting with the SABC demanding that retrenchments be halted because it did not
want to be “embarrassed” ahead of the 2021 local government election. This
is not fair to either the SABC’s management or its staff.” Meanwhile, Sanef said while it was “keenly aware” that many industries
are going through really tough times, what is “particularly worrying is
that with the media industry plays a powerful, democracy-deepening role in society
– this is in terms of ensuring a free flow of information in society to keep
citizens informed and to hold the powerful to account, both in terms of
government and the private sector. We are thus worried that the collapse of the
media in small towns, and the shrinking of the industry as a whole, will have a
devastating long-term effect on the health of our democracy”. Sanef has compiled a list of resources for journalists whose jobs
have been impacted by Covid-19. It can be found here. A podcast in which host of Business Day Spotlight, Mudiwa Gavaza, was joined by Kate Skinner, Executive Director at SANEF and founding members, Mary B Papayya, discuss the impact of Covid-19 on the local media landscape can be heard here: //iono.fm/c/3799? If you would like to donate to the Sanef Media Relief Fund, please click here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.