While the media in South Africa has been through hard times, readers are still loyal and still looking for quality. And they’re even gearing up to pay for it. Journalism would be nothing without clichés. A former Financial Times colleague of mine, writing the front page piece of a supplement on Italian banking 30 years ago, opened fabulously with “the skies over Milan are blackening with the wings of economic chickens coming home to roost”. That’s pretty well unbeatable but most people’s
views about the media in South Africa are a bit clichéd too. We’re falling
apart, juniorised, mired in ‘fake news’ and incompetent. I think that’s a bit unfair. Almost nobody is making money out of quality media in this country and newsrooms at newspapers, radio stations and television channels are squeezed so tight you can hear them squeak. But, at the same time, there’s real quality in all of those places. What has changed are reader loyalties – where the audience read one newspaper and listened to one morning show on the radio and watched one channel’s evening news, they now pick and choose. I know I do it. I follow bylines. I read people
I know are good, regardless of where or with what technology they are being
published. At 8pm I flick through the television channels to see for myself who
has the most compelling lead. Our media has a bright future. There’s a lot of
talent being groomed at places like Daily Maverick, and Lebashe, the new owners
of what was Tiso Blackstar, now Arena Holdings, are going to take in a host of
trainees in the coming few years, coronavirus withstanding. AmaBhungane is
arguably the best team of investigative journalists in the world. The Citizen
newspaper has vastly improved. Add to that the simple fact that we live in a
democracy where I have not heard a serious threat uttered to the media in years
and the fact that South Africa is a seriously compelling story, and all the
ingredients for survival and growth are in place. A downtrodden economy doesn’t help, but it
would be wrong to blame that for the state of some of our newsrooms. Owners
matter and very few publications of any merit in this country are run and owned
by actual publishers. We forget, in fact, what a publisher is supposed to be –
someone, preferably in a frayed jersey, old shoes and broken glasses who gives
his or her all for the publication. I’ll get myself into trouble here but in all honesty the only real
publishers in South Africa right now are Engineering News’ Martin Creamer and
Daily Maverick’s founder, Branko Brkic. There isn’t anything (legal) he
wouldn’t do to keep his ship afloat. The rest of the media worth reading is
owned by rich people or companies who see their titles as businesses there to
deliver profits into their pockets. It’s the same the world over, I know, but
it still leaves a nasty taste when you see it happening. The Daily Maverick has done really well. I
think the bigger newspaper groups, particularly mine (Times Media, Johncom,
Avusa, Times Media Limited, Tiso Blackstar and Arena Holdings) gave it space
when they should have been taking it more seriously. Never underestimate
passion in a publisher. For much of the past decade, a parade of owners
and managers has mistaken myth for truth and has regarded the Independent Media
group as its opposition. But it never was. Daily Maverick is. The Independent
papers may well become a competitive factor again when his creditors take them
out of Iqbal Survé’s hands. But right now, they are of a very poor quality. The big events of the year though have been and
will be the impact on television news of Newzroom Afrika, a really feisty,
professional and highly watchable replacement for the Gupta family’s ANN7. Newzroom
Afrika will have given e.tv’s eNews and eNCA a real fright. In fact, you can see the fright actually
occurring on your screens as you watch eNCA programming change and strategies
fly out the windows along with senior news executives. This is good and healthy
competition. eNCA had that space all to itself and became complacent and
arrogant and now it has to fight for its life. In print, the sale of the Tiso Blackstar media
business to Arena is highly significant. Arena didn’t have to borrow money to
do the deal and that means their approach to the titles (Business Day, Sunday
Times, Financial Mail, Sowetan, Daily Dispatch, the Herald and the Weekend
Post) could be very different. These titles have been stretched over the past
few years and the prospect that editors might now be able to even think about
acquiring new resources, perhaps poach back stars they have lost and to dream a
little bigger is, for them, real and exciting. Newspapers need publishers to
love them. I understand the pressures on previous owners but I sure hope the
pressures on the new owners are at least different. It makes an enormous difference building a new
digital future on the back of an established print brand, which is where Arena
Holdings is now. The Financial Times, the Washington Post and The New York
Times have all proved that the mix of print and digital is potent if it is
managed carefully. Simply going online doesn’t always work though – whatever
happened to the Huffington Post? Or the Daily Beast? For me, the big battle ahead is obviously online. In South Africa
the Arena titles face a daunting array of competitors, all of them available
for free, while the Sunday Times, Business Day and the others earn their money
through subscriptions. It means they have to be much, much better than the free
competition. They are not there yet but they could be. I see
regular figures showing an amazing growth in reader traffic to articles behind
paywalls in Business Day or the Financial Mail. An example popped up in my mail
as I was writing this article. In less than a week in mid-January almost 33 000
customers paid to read Carol Paton’s take on opposition inside the ANC to
President Cyril Ramaphosa. In the FM in the same period more than 10 000
paid to read FM deputy editor Natasha Marrian’s column about the deputy
president. The week before, nearly 50 000 subscribers read Karyn Maughan on the
public protector’s battle with Ramaphosa. So the paywalls are working – provided people
want to know what’s behind them. The big battle to come is over the talent
required to persuade more people to pay. Over at Naspers, Koos Bekker is happy to provide a really good News24 and Fin24 free to the public. It keeps the Arena group (the Sunday Times and Business Day in particular) in its place. But if you happen to be Afrikaans speaking you’re toast and you have to pay to read pretty much the same stuff that’s free in English [News24 announced it would be introducing a readers subscription service in July 2020. Ed]. That’s because there’s no competition. The survivor here is going to be the subscription model, I’ve no doubt. But it’ll take a long time to settle. This story was first published in The Media Yearbook 2020. Peter Bruce, a well-known columnist, was editor-at-large at Arena Holdings (formerly Tiso Blackstar Group) and editor-in-chief of Business Day, Financial Mail and ABC, the broadcaster of the Business Day TV, Home and Ignition television channels. He was editor of Business Day from 2001 until August 2012. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.