The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: DStv Media Sales partners with WarnerMedia as Mediamark exits TV sales DStv Media Sales has
embarked on a new commercial partnership with one of the world’s leading
providers and distributors of high-quality content, WarnerMedia. This
significant partnership will offer DStv Media Sales clients access to dynamic
advertising solutions on WarnerMedia’s key TV channels in South Africa: Its
Kids multiplex, Cartoon Network
and Boomerang, as well as its
general entertainment channel, TNT. WarnerMedia is
a global advertising and entertainment company that creates and distributes
premium and popular content from a diverse array of talented storytellers and
journalists to global audiences through its consumer brands like HBO, Warner
Bros., CNN, and DC Entertainment. “A key driver is
definitely WarnerMedia’s outstanding reputation for creating premium content
and delivering exceptional experiences to our African viewers. The performance
of our multiplex, and the variety of our audience profiles, will give
advertisers valuable media exposure combining reach, diverse content
opportunities, and strong brand association, enabling valuable advertising
ROI,” said Guillaume Coffin, VP and Head of Commercial and Business Development
at WarnerMedia France, Africa and Israel. “We are extremely excited to welcome our two favourite kids’ channels and the Hollywood blockbuster channel to our platform,” says Piwe Motshegoa, Head of Sales: General Entertainment.” Meanwhile, Mediamark has made a will no longer be
representing TV channels as part of its portfolio. “Mediamark has taken a
strategic decision to focus on our core audio and digital advertising
solutions business,” said CEO, Wayne Bischoff. “Radio broadcasting and
the digital space is evolving rapidly, and we want
Mediamark to be at the forefront of this exciting new era of audio
advertising. Our TV sales and support resources are highly respected and
experienced in the industry and their talents are being redeployed in
other areas of the business”. As
part of this strategic shift, Mediamark will no longer be representing Cape
Town TV and the Warner Media brands: Cartoon Network, Boomerang and TNT
effective 1 July 2020.  “We have had a fantastic partnership with these
leading channels and believe that the efforts made in positioning and
selling these channels will stand them in good stead as we exit the
partnership. Mediamark would like to thank them for the partnership
and wish them much success in the future” Bischoff added. People moves ViacomCBS Networks International
promotes Monde Twala to BET International
leadership role ViacomCBS
Networks International (VCNI) has announced that Monde Twala, senior vice President
of ViacomCBS Networks Africa, edditorial and general manager, has also been
appointed peer lead for BET International. Twala
will work closely with Kerry Taylor, executive vice president of VCNI’s
entertainment and youth brands, and the larger international division to guide
editorial direction and identify opportunities to strengthen and grow the BET
brand outside the United States. Twala will focus on driving brand resonance
across key markets, while prioritising the company’s ongoing digital
transformation. “BET
is the unifying platform for all-things Black culture. I’m excited to
collaborate with Kerry and the international team to unite, empower and elevate
Black culture and excellence around the world, spotlighting the diverse voices,
stories, music and news that need to be seen and heard,” Twala said. Good Things Guy joins panel on how to energise
South Africa South Africa’s Good
Things Guy, Brent Lindeque is joining fellow panellists Happy MaKhumalo
(Proudly South Africa), Jaun Pienaar (Apex Media) and Nwabisa Makunga (The
Sowetan) on the topic of ‘Energising our biggest brand – South Africa’ on 9
July at 10am. “Even though South Africa has its challenges, we
have so many good stories to tell,” said Lindeque. “Over the past few months
while we’ve been experiencing a global pandemic, the search for good news has
increased exponentially. People want and I firmly believe, NEED, good news!
There are so many stories to share that demonstrate that we as South Africans
are more generous, more caring and more willing to assist people we’ve never
even met before.” Interested parties can register for the discussion here
at no charge. New board
for ACA The new Board of Directors of the Association
for Communication and Advertising (ACA) for the 2020/2021 fiscal were elected
at the 73rd Annual General Meeting held on Wednesday 24 June 2020.
The AGM was held virtually and in line with social distancing measures. The
incoming Board is: Wayne Naidoo was re-elected to the position of
Chair, with Gareth Leck and Thabang Skwambane re-elected as Vice-Chairs. The
Exco is composed of the Chair and Vice-Chairs, Karabo Songo and Mathe Okaba. Tribeca Public Relations welcomes Tsholofelo
Montwedi Tribeca Public Relations (Tribeca) has
welcomed Tsholofelo Montwedi as an account executive where she joins an
established team working on The Capital Hotels and Apartments, Kaelo,
and Sony
accounts. “Tsholo, as she is affectionately known, has
brought a wonderful energy to Tribeca and her team and is already achieving
great results through her focus on and experience in media relations and brand
research,” said Fezile Africa, account director at Tribeca Public Relations. “Her dedication and commitment to her clients,
particularly while the Tribeca team has been working remotely during the
COVID-19 alert levels, has been exceptional, and we’re so happy to have her
onboard.” Tsholo holds a diploma in public relations and
communications from the University of Johannesburg, where she tutored other
students and assisted extended programme assistants. Mohale Ralebitso joins Wunderman Thompson
noard as non-executive chairman Wunderman Thompson has appointed Mohale Ralebitso
to its South African board of directors as non-executive chairman. The
move comes two months after Miles Murphy joined as CEO of the South
African agency – one of the largest integrated agencies in
the country. With enviable experience across various
roles, Ralebitso has excelled as an entrepreneur, marketer and
agency manager, and is a seasoned transformational business leader.
He will work with Murphy and the Wunderman Thompson board to guide
the strategic growth of the agency and steward its transformation plan. New consumer head to drive growth for Eclipse
Communications and its clients Public relations and
digital communications specialist, Janine Laubscher, has just joined Eclipse Communications
Cape Town as an account director. In her new role, she will
be responsible for ensuring the Cape Town team are achieving their strategic
objectives for clients as well as the business. She is also responsible for
maximising business opportunities and developing new accounts as well as new
opportunities with existing customers With over a decade of experience
on content production, public relations and digital communications, Laubscher
has managed and executed a multitude of lifestyle and FMCG brands and has deep
insights into how to build strong connections between businesses and consumers. Heidi
Duminy appointed principal of the Cape Wine Academy The Cape Wine Academy has announced the
appointment of Heidi Duminy as principal. “This challenge is only surpassed by the
privilege of the opportunity and the support of the Cape Wine Masters and wine
industry community who are passionate about wine education in South
Africa,” said Duminy. “In this time of profound change, the
constant for the Cape Wine Academy is to offer accessible and relevant wine
education for all levels of wine professionals and enthusiasts. Whether you are
looking for a fun encounter with wine or a more serious study journey, there
must be an engaging and affordable option. Everyone is welcome.” Business moves CliffCentral expands to launch a creative content
agency As many companies come under pressure in South
Africa in the wake of the COVID-19, CliffCentral.com is extending its scope to
launch its own content agency, offering a full suite of communication services
for forward-thinking brands. “With
the explosion of podcasting, combined with more and more brands moving to
digital marketing,” said Gareth Cliff “CliffCentral Creative”is a natural evolution and builds
on the already strong foundation of CliffCentral’s core content production
offering, while leveraging our digital distribution footprint of over three
million across social media, website and podcast audience”. Cliff said the company had built a great team since
it launched in 2014. “We’re excited about joining forces with Tim Culley who
will head up CliffCentral Creative to
take the offering out of the studio, into the market.” Culley, former MD of TBWA Hunt Lascaris Cape Town,
and head of marketing for Weylandts and Truworths, said CliffCentral Creative was the
only content agency in South Africa that has its own audience as part of the
offering. CliffCentral Creative will have three core areas: Simultaneously CliffCentral is launching a new podcast series, Marketshare, with legendary advertising icon Reg Lascaris, founder of TBWA Hunt Lascaris and best-selling author. It willbe a broad-based podcast talking about marketing and business trends, interviewing a wide range of people in this arena. Kagiso Media Radio and Mediamark join forces with AdsWizz Kagiso Media
Radio, together with its Media Sales House Mediamark, have announced that
it has selected AdsWizz for the delivery of its Digital
Audio Advertising products. Recently awarded ‘Best Overall
Technology for Programmatic Trading’ from The
DRUM in both the US and Europe, and ‘Best
Monetization Platform’ at the Digiday Technology
Awards, AdsWizz is a leading global technology provider
in digital audio advertising solutions. The AdsWizz platform
will facilitate both direct and programmatic access to the Jacaranda
FM, East Coast Radio, and East Coast Gold live streaming products.
With targeting capabilities ranging from demographics, psychographics,
geo-location, and custom, data-defined
segments, the AdsWizz platform will ensure audiences are
targeted more efficiently, minimising waste, and taking audio
advertising in South Africa to the next level. Kagiso Media
Radio Chief Executive, Nick Grubb, said: “We’ve been waiting for the right
time to launch this capability. We wanted to be sure we had the right partner
and enough scale to be a meaningful solution to our advertisers. Our stream
volumes have risen exponentially in the last year to market-leadings levels,
and the AdsWizz platform is the global gold standard, implemented in
most major markets by the top media companies.” The
cutting-edge technology will also enable East Coast Radio and Jacaranda FM to
create better ad experiences for their listeners, while at the same time
helping ad buyers reach their campaign objectives more effectively. Mediamark’s CEO Wayne
Bischoff said: “We are thrilled to be powering the Digital Audio
advertising revolution in South Africa. Digital Audio
platforms are bringing the world of radio and digital together in a major way. This
partnership allows us the opportunity to offer clients a seamless presence
across both mediums, unlocking multiple touchpoints with our listeners across
our valued radio partners”. Joe Public’s
2020 vision reaches Cape Town While Joe Public United is no stranger to the
complexities and challenges that the ‘corona’ pandemic has brought with it, it
has also never been known to shy away from an opportunity to expand its
purpose, even in the harshest of climates. Enter Joe Public United’s newest growth venture:
Joe Public Cape Town. The branding and
communications group’s Cape Town launch is the newest addition to the Joe
Public United family, enabling the group to expand its capabilities and extend
its unique offering to markets outside of Johannesburg. Joe Public Cape Town will
be led by Cape-based Brendan Hoffmann as executive creative director, who
returns to Joe Public after 11 years, thanks to the opening of the new Mother
City office. Hoffmann is joined by Matt Quarta, a senior integrated strategic planner, who brings to the
partnership his extensive expertise in the digital landscape, particularly in
data and analytics, and brand and communication strategy. Quarta has been with
Joe Public since 2017. The brand and communications group views the
opening of the Cape Town office as a further opportunity to expand on its purpose
of growing its people, clients and country, under the stewardship of Hoffmann
and the Cape Town Joe Public team. A+E Networks® Africa launches digital brands: Crime+Investigation Play and Lifetime Play A+E Networks® Africa has expanded its reach with the
launch of two new digital brands. The local division of the global media and
entertainment giant announced that Crime+Investigation Play and Lifetime PLAY
launched on Viu, an over-the-top (OTT) video service in South Africa. This is
also the global debut for a launch of Lifetime PLAY. “Launching
Crime+Investigation Play and Lifetime Play is a fantastic opportunity to share
our well-loved and award-winning shows with new audiences. Viu subscribers will
be the first on-demand viewers in Africa to have access to our content and we
are thrilled at the expansion of our brands,” said regional manager of A+E Networks Africa, Nazarene
Khan. Discovery Channels to Launch in
French on StarTimes Digital TV Platform Discovery INC has announced that
they will be launching two of their channels, Investigation Discovery (ID) and
Discovery Science in French with leading digital Pay TV provider, StarTimes in
Sub-Saharan Africa. “We are dedicated to creating the
highest quality content that informs, inspires and entertains and we are always
looking for ways to expand on our offering, making it accessible to new
audiences,” said Amanda Turnbull, vice president and general manager for
Discovery in Africa, the Middle East and Turkey. “With these channels we will
be able to meet the growing demands of French speaking subscribers across the
continent while further deepening our long-standing relationship with
StarTimes.” Launched in 1996 Discovery Science
is still the only 24/7 global channel devoted to science, space, engineering
and construction, delivering squarely on Discovery’s promise of ‘satisfying
curiosity’. TAPTAP Digital, global leaders in
location intelligence marketing, gains traction in the SA and African markets Founded in 2010, TAPTAP is a global Demand Side
Platform (DSP) /Data Management Platform (DMP) underpinned by location
intelligence technology with access to premium, brand-safe global and local
inventory. It trades in over 85 countries, with 300 brands in every major
agency group. TAPTAP provides global tech with local expertise to efficiently
connect brands to their audiences. Africa Media Alliance
launched TAPTAP in South Africa in 2019, as their Sub-Saharan Africa venture
partner, offering access to audiences in 36 countries across the African
continent. “Using TAPTAP’s proprietary technology
stack, we can leverage location and artificial intelligence to empower advanced
audience segmentation and profiling, dynamic advertising activation and
offline/online ad and footfall attribution. Our fully managed or programmatic
self-service offering guarantees location by drawing on up to 10 signal sources
to qualify location,” said AMA commercial director, Andrew Gillett. Over 50 brands in South Africa are
already using TAPTAP, connecting to the full premium inventory ecosystem using
a unique variety of the custom Tap2 creative ad units such as Tap2Map, Tap2Web,
Tap2Form, Tap2Calendar. There are more than 23 ad units available covering
display, video, audio and native ads for desktop and mobile. In addition, the
Sonata platform features dynamic creative optimisation. Nedbank teams up with PRIMEDIA’s 702
and CapeTalk to ignite small-business ideas As Covid-19 regulations begin to ease,
Nedbank and talk radio stations 702 and CapeTalk are ready to support
small businesses and entrepreneurs through the return of the Nedbank Business
Ignite campaign, with prizes worth over R1 million. Five businesses with winning ideas
(three in Johannesburg and two in Cape Town) will each receive prizes worth
more than R260 000, including an intensive incubation programme from
an independent business growth specialist valued at R40 000; a media booking to
the value of R200 000 on either 702 or CapeTalk, or both (depending on
business’s needs); and a cash injection of R20 000 for their business. Nedbank Business Ignite is a campaign
that aims to empower entrepreneurs to carve out new markets and sustainable
industries, boosting the South African economy in new and innovative
ways. The campaign will be on air again on
702 and CapeTalk on 29 June 2020, with a renewed focus on helping
small businesses and entrepreneurs to transform their businesses after the
Covid-19 pandemic. Matsi Modise joins the
project as the 2020 incubator and will lead the charge, mentoring and coaching
participating micro-, small and medium-sized businesses. Modise is an
accomplished entrepreneur, entrepreneurship activist and the National Executive
Director of the South African Black Entrepreneurs Forum (SABEF) and champion of
SME development strategies for corporate entities, banks and institutions of
higher learning. MultiChoice
and ViacomCBS Networks Africa launch Nick Jr. in Ethiopia MultiChoice and ViacomCBS Networks Africa have
announced the introduction of the Amharic language on to Nick Jr., the
educational, pre-school channel from Nickelodeon. Available on DStv Channel 312, audiences can look
forward to what will be an initially phased approach of the Amharic programming
content line-up that will begin with the playful and helpful pups from Paw
Patrol, the eager feathered cadets from Top Wing, problem solving Rusty Rivets
and the little girl with a big heart, Abby Hatcher. Tribeca appointed as Smartick’s PR partner Smartick, a global online maths and
code-learning programme for children aged between four and14 years, has
appointed Tribeca
Public Relations (Tribeca) as its local strategic PR agency. Following an initial two-month project, which
yielded results that directly impacted Smartick’s business objectives, the
agency was retained to sustain awareness of the e-learning programme, which
positively impacts a child’s cognitive abilities in just 15minutes a day – from
learning and practicing maths, to coding, logic and problem-solving. Discover Digital, EFX launch turnkey digital
conference solution Broadcast production specialists, EFX
Productions, and parent company Discover Digital, have launched a full-service
solution to take major events and conferences online. The new conference broadcast service will allow
organisers of major events to seamlessly move their conferences online to
Discover Digital’s dedicated online conferencing television service, where
event organisers can brand, monetise and gather data on their events. Stephen Watson, MD of Discover Digital and
director of EFX Productions, said the new instance of the Digital Conferencing
platform has been created to enable the creative, exhibition, conferencing and
events industries to continue staging their events despite the constraints
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. Because the service is hosted on Discover
Digital’s advanced VOD and Live TV digital platform, it offers a range of
features not available on most video-conferencing and streaming platforms. EFX Productions, experts in the production of TV
broadcast content, will film and edit content to ensure the event is elevated
by professional quality footage. HUAWEI partners with SovTech to assist local app
partners integrate with its mobile services HUAWEI has enlisted the services of SovTech, a
custom software development company to assist with refiguring the core services
of some of South Africa’s most used mobile apps to be able to function fully on
its mobile ecosystem – HUAWEI Mobile Services (HMS). The partnership entails SovTech assisting HUAWEI’s
local app partners, such as Travelstart, to migrate onto HUAWEI’s app
distribution platform, HUAWEI AppGallery, and adding HMS core services on more
than 40 apps. HUAWEI AppGallery has generated over 350 billion app downloads
globally since launching in April 2018. Making
moves Ipeleng Khunou, Hezekiel Sepeng, Siv Ngesi, Janine
van Wyk, Charne Bosman and more join the challenge for Mandela Day Affectionately known as
‘CrazyLegs’, Ipeleng Khunou, who famously competed in the Two Oceans on
crutches, has put his weight behind the ‘67 Kilometres for Mandela Day’ virtual
race and has challenged colleagues in the sporting and entertainment world to
do the same. So far, former Olympian Hezekiel Sepeng, comedian
Siv Ngesi, Banyana Banyana captain Janine van Wyk, former South African
cricketer JP Duminy, Comrades 2019 winner Edward Mothobi, sports anchors Lebo
Motsoeli and OG Molefe, and former Comrades winner
Charne Bosman have heeded the call. The virtual race, which is raising funds for the
Nelson Mandela Children’s Fund (the Fund) ahead of Mandela Day, invites
walkers, cyclists and runners to join the virtual event online from anywhere in
the world to make a huge difference to the children of South Africa. The challenge can be completed anytime between
today and the 18th July when Mandela Day is acknowledged. This year
also celebrates the 25th year that the Nelson Mandela Children’s
Fund has been in existence. Nomthi Mnisi, Director of Communications and
Marketing at the Fund said: “We are absolutely thrilled that Ipeleng and team
have joined us in what is the inaugural virtual event for Mandela Day. There is
a nominal fee of R250 which will go a long way in supporting the children of
South Africa in need.” Participants can log onto the dedicated virtual event software online at www.vfcseriescom – create a profile and link their smart devices. Daily data uploads are plotted on the virtual route, over-laid into a Google Street view so they can see how they are comparing to other ‘racers’ in the same event – real time. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.