[PARTNER CONTENT] Radio – ‘the theatre of the mind’ – remains the most powerful medium for connecting directly with your existing and potential audiences. Studies show that most of us spend 70 to 80 percent of our
waking hours engaged in some form of communication. About 9% is spent writing,
16% reading, 30% speaking, and 45% listening. For communicators, the challenges are to both capture the attention of the customer and to ensure that the message is remembered. This is where story-telling on radio helps cut through the
clutter. Only radio connects you directly with the thoughts and
emotions of consumers. Two people sitting next to each other will be silent and
totally absorbed in a message being shared on radio. They are actively
involved. In contrast, television is a passive medium – with a
distance between the consumer and the screen. People discuss what they are
watching and are more easily distracted because there is no intimate
connection. Similarly, with print, readers scan pages for information – there is little opportunity for advertisers to fully engage with their customer. Nielsen Global Media’s research findings persuasively
advocate the multiplication of the power of radio by combining it with other
channels. This is also the experience of Algoa FM’s advertisers. Our understanding of these dynamics and of our market has
seen Algoa FM grow into the most powerful media house in “Algoa Country,” which
stretches from the Wild Coast to the Garden Route and inland to the borders of
the Eastern Cape. We are building on a consistent year-long rise in Algoa FM
listenership, which has seen 18% year-on-year growth from April 2019 to March
2020, according to Broadcast Research Council (BRC) figures. This growth has accelerated since January 2020 with the
introduction of a fresh new station line-up based on thorough market research.
We understand our market intimately because all our on-air personalities and
staff live in the Eastern Cape. Algoa FM’s award-winning presenters engage proactively with
listeners both on-air and online. Call-ins are encouraged throughout the day, and the
personalities interact with their fans through social media 24/7. Listeners and fans are also given the opportunity to
personally interact and meet with our on-air personalities during outside
broadcasts and other on-site activations. Algoa FM has the strongest physical presence in the
market-place of all media companies in our broadcast footprint. For advertisers, the power of this connection is unleashed
through on-air campaigns and competitions designed to build their brand. Fully integrated into our on-air and on-the-ground activities
is our powerful online presence. Though experience, our clients are finding that radio
seamlessly integrates with their social media and digital strategies, thus
creating more reach and frequency for their campaigns. Online traffic to Algoa FM’s social media pages increased by
44% during the COVID-19 pandemic, and we are retaining that connection. Algoa FM listeners hear it on the news (which they know is
credible) or from an interviewed guest, and then go to our social feeds and
visit our website for more details. The Covid-inspired shift to a more intensive online
environment can also be measured in the success of the first Virtual Business
Expo in the Eastern Cape, powered by Algoa FM as media partner, and
conceptualised by leading local company, Inkanyezi Events. Hundreds of businesses and individuals registered for the
“three-dimensional” event, which included an online conference. They heard about it on Algoa FM, and followed the link from our website. In an era where fake news is widespread, people are turning
to media houses they trust. Algoa FM’s philosophy is to report the facts … to do
so fairly, accurately and within context; all the while serving the interests
of its audience and advertisers … and that isn’t ever going to change! Listeners know they can trust what they hear on-air and read
online @algoafm. By association, listeners trust the advertising messages they hear on air and see online. Algoa FM’s experienced and well-connected sales team helps agencies
and clients to craft as well as tailor single and multi-platform campaigns that
work. Speak to us – we live here and are passionate about our
region and its people. For contact details please go to www.algoafm.co.za Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.