South Africa’s media sector – and consumers – have been devastated by news of many of the country’s magazines either closing down, going digital or being bought out. But there are glimmers of light at the end of the gloomy tunnel with news that three new magazines have launched, or will be launching soon. South African entrepreneur and founding editor of
Zkhiphani, Andile Mathobela, has launched TheJournalistDJ.com, a digital video magazine documenting the dance culture in South
Africa. Publishing director of Isikhova Media, Jason Aarons, is launching a new jewellery magazine, JZA, also digital, in November (it will be seasonal) while book publishers Penguin have issued their first Penguin Post, the only one which will offer a print component. With the publishing sector reeling from the complete
closure of Associated Media Publishing (losing titles such as Cosmpolitan,
House & Leisure and Good Housekeeping), plus the decision by Caxton to
close its entire magazine
division (including rooi rose, Food & Home, Bona and People, among
others) and Media24’s recent shock
decision to discontine titles (Move! and the Hearst
portfolio of titles – Men’s Health, Women’s Health, Bicycling, Runner’s World)
while outsourcing and changing publishing models (Fairlady, SARIE, SA
Hunter/Jagter, True Love, tuis|home, Weg!|go! and Weg! Ry & Sleep/ go!
Drive & Camp) as well as the fortnightly Kuier), it seemed the sector was
on its last legs. The coronavirus pandemic wrought
havoc on an already wobbly sector, so why would new and independent publishers
buck the trend and launch new titles? Mathobela sold his shares in
Zkhiphani, which was acquired by M&N
Brands – the holding company that owns Avatar Johannesburg, Avatar Cape Town,
Avatar Media Agency, Avatar PR, Mela Events and Bozza – to fund
TheJournalistDJ.com. “I think launching a digital magazine in the middle of
a pandemic is brilliant simply because people are encouraged to stay home; this
means that most people spend more time consuming content on their mobile
devices so it makes sense to rather catch up on news at home as opposed to
going to shops to buy print publications which could expose you to Covid19,” he
said. He also reasoned that brands were being “forced to cut on traditional
spending via billboards, print newspapers etc because there are less people in
public so the internet is a feasible solution for marketing”. For
Aarons, the pandemic offered an opportunity to rework and reframe Isikhova
Media’s publishing model for clients, their industries and their brands. “The
jewellery sector is one. As official publishers of the Jewellery Council of
South Africa’s (JCSA) trade magazine, SA Jewellery News, we realised how
dramatically the supply chain would be affected, especially retail,” he
explains. Because of Covid-19, the “whole concept of ‘feet-in-store’ was going
to change, and fast”. The
result was they recognised the need to bring jewellery and watch consumers, and
jewellery retailers, together. “And with a major portion of consumer/lifestyle
magazines closing down – especially print titles –traditional
advertising platforms became no longer profitable and workable options for
retailers. JZA is now the platform to bring retailers and their offerings
directly to the consumer,” Aarons says. Mathobela has completely
embraced the massive video trend, and it is this that underpins his online publishing
strategy. “The traditional way of
blogging is uploading text based articles and sharing them with your followers;
people have been doing this for decades and research shows that the majority of
online content consumers would rather watch videos than read long articles,
especially young people,” he believes. “Thejournalistdj.com articles are 100% video-based, meaning that text is
just there to describe the video, a modern way of communication, every social
media post is also motion picture.” In terms of sustainability and monetisation of the online title,
Mathobela says he offers brands insights on the dance music culture and offer
them creative ideas on how they can plug in”. He says house music produces global superstars, and points to a producer
from Limpopo called Master KG  and his hit song Jerusalema, which has
people from all over the world dancing, literally. “There are many artists like Master KG who are doing amazing things in
the world of dance music in South Africa but their stories are not documented
and brands are missing out on great marketing opportunities,” he says.
“thejournalistdj.com plans on being the bridge between dance industry and
brands. Other income opportunities are online events; when the lockdown
started, the house music industry saved the day as many deejays kept people
entertained by hosting live music sets. thejournalistdj.com is going to take
this concept to the next level as life as we know it has changed, so we will be
hosting a lot of online festivals.” Mathobela believes there isn’t too much competition in the niche publishing sector as yet.
“The industry is too focused on fighting the internet revolution instead of
adapting and integrating,” he says. “Fortunately, for independent publishers
like myself, the internet is leveling the playfield until they catch up. Africa
is diverse with amazing content and right now, anyone who has passion for
content can really take things to the next level.” Aarons, too, underlines JZA’s
niche positioning as one of its pillars of sustainability. “Financial
sustainability is based first-and-foremost on our stability as an independent
publisher. So JZA’s sustainability is two-fold: it’s based on the company’s and
through our own publishing model of it being self-funded and doable through advertising
and highly credible industry backing and it is the only consumer magazine of
its kind to be officially endorsed by the Jewellery Council of South Africa,”
he says. “Our only real cost is our time,
distribution, marketing, PR and promotional campaigns. JZA’s advertising
proposition is one that aims to bring all jewellery retailers nationwide and
their offerings directly to the consumer; promote the collective of generic
retail jewellery as well as all individual brands; and help them to rebuild
store traffic via online and in real time. Other income streams lie in industry
sponsorship.” The Penguin Post, meanwhile, has a built-in readership of book lovers, and delivers news of books and authors, and is “Bursting with light-hearted and informative features centred around Penguin Random House’s latest and greatest titles”. It offers book news, expert advice, author interviews, health and wellbeing, opinion pieces, book extracts and even recipes for cookbooks. Aarons says their readership research was focused on
internet-connected individuals. “There were 32 615 165 South
African internet users at the end of 2019, representing a 55% population
penetration (source: Internet World Stats). It is projected 2020 will see
this increase to 56.3% (source: satista.com). Our potential readership reach
is aimed at 5% of internet users,” he says. Mathobela
is even more optimistic: “South
Africa’s biggest dance music artist, Kabza De Small, reached millions of
streams less than a month after releasing his album. His music is a sub-genre
of House called Amapiano, so to answer your question, I will be modest and say
that the potential size of my readership could be a million views a month.” Here’s to hoping their optimism is well-founded! Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.