The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Meltwater now provides print and broadcast content, monitoring and tracking to the African market If 2020 has proven one thing for
marketers, it’s that Covid-19 rapidly accelerated the need for digital
innovation and strategies. It is now, more than ever, paramount to the success
of any business that effective tracking of marketing KPIs is in place. With that in mind, Meltwater, a leader in media intelligence, will now
provide print and broadcast content, monitoring and tracking to the African
market. This now allows Meltwater to provide a complete 360-degree solution
that covers 1 150 print and 70 broadcast sources in Southern Africa. Meltwater not only provides sentiment
data analysis for brands, but it also offers ad tracking for both print and
broadcast content, and behind the paywall content. It now has the capability to help brands
track their ad placements for both print and broadcast to ensure that
advertorials are placed correctly and with the right content. And with the help
of the company’s world-class sentiment analysis, gauging the reactions of
audiences to digital ads and product placements allows brands to engage in the
conversation and react accordingly. For a free demo of the Meltwater platform
and ad monitoring capabilities, click
here. People moves Abundant Media Group welcomes Sifiso
Hlope A strategist and social media junkie with a
penchant for quick wit. The Abundant Media Group has welcomed Sifiso Hlope as its
digital Strategist. He started his digital obsession at the age of 15
when he capitalised on the algorithmic flaws of social media platforms where he
could build top ranking pages and accounts for his peers and later start-ups as
well as prominent figures. He was attracted to the commercial side of
digital when he received gigs to promote events using his catalog of
influencers. Hlope forfeited his sports scholarship after he heard a radio
advert about an all-new Bcom Degree in Digital Marketing that was being
introduced by Vega School, which he completed after securing sponsorship. During his time at tertiary he made extra cash
doing the A&R of influencers, which is how he discovered his sales knack.
He completed his degree along with a Principals of Innovation certificate as
well as a Gamification certificate. He was one of two graduates selected for an
e-commerce learnership at Kaya FM. He opted for a switch to agency to practice
under the mentorship of the leading digital thought leaders and strategists in
the country. He eventually began his own freelance digital
agency and then scored a gig at Econet’s Kwese TV as it launched, and it wasn’t
long before he was scooped up by MSG Group Broadcasting where he worked as a
digital sales strategist mainly building the digital platforms and developing
digital product propositions for POWER 98.7 & Capricorn FM. “When people ask me what’s the ROI of Social, I
ask them… what’s the ROI of Trust, and what’s the ROI of Loyalty. The answer,
when used to build relationships the results will be… longer lifetime value of
a customer, larger average order value, and increased frequency of purchase.
All measurable and all lead to increased sales and profits… Yes, I’m big fan of ecommerce, ebusiness, emarketing and selected other words beginning with e.” A Very Bonang Year to
broadcast on SABC 1 A new two part special, A Very Bonang Year – which follows
SA’s biggest media personality, Bonang Matheba, on her global adventures – will broadcast on SABC 1 in August, giving fans a unique insight into what was Bonang’s
most powerful year yet. Complete with exclusive content, in A Very Bonang Year, fans get to join Bonang on her ‘global expansion’ as she journeys from Prague to London,
Manchester, New York and Los Angeles and back to SA, getting an insider glimpse
into her daily life and being upfront at larger-than-life events. “I’m so excited to have a special on SABC 1. It’ll be very different from Being Bonang because even if viewers have followed my journey, the show goes beyond social media with a behind-the-scenes look into a new chapter in my business career & life. I am taking viewers into my confidence,” said Bonang. WASPA welcomes
Dhavelin Chetty to board South Africa’s Wireless Application Service
Providers’ Association (WASPA) has welcomed Dhavelin Chetty to its board
following the recent resignation of Doris Mogotsi due to business commitments. South Africa’s non-profit mobile content and
applications industry representative body said Chetty joins WASPA to head up
its Membership Portfolio at a critical junction. According to WASPA general manager Ilonka Badenhorst: “Mobile content and applications truly demonstrated their value as South Africa sought ways to battle the Coronavirus pandemic. Mobile has enabled millions to stay at home while using the apps developed by WASPs and others to continue working, studying and more. “Attracting new high-level talent like Dhavelin
will help WASPA continue to evangelise the mobile medium as key to safeguarding
South Africa’s future, while also growing WASPA’s member base,” Ms Badenhorst
said. Kagiso Trust announces new chairperson Mankone Ntsaba has been announced as the new chairperson
for Kagiso Trust. Ntsaba has been with the Board of Kagiso Trust
since 2009 and has served as Deputy Chair of the Board and Chair of the
Programmes Committee for the last six years. She served as a member of the
Board of Kagiso Tiso Holdings (KTH), Kagiso Africa Investments (KAI) and the
advisory Board of Kagiso Shanduka Trust (KST). Ntsaba takes over from Reverend Frank Chikane,
whose term has come to an end. “It is an honour to take over from one of the
founding members of Kagiso Trust,” said Ntsaba, “And I look forward to leading
a phenomenal board as we work through these difficult times globally. Kagiso
Trust is one of South Africa’s leading development agencies working towards a
prosperous, peaceful, equitable and just society. Over the past 35 years, we
have invested over R2 billion in development and implemented over 1 831
programmes. I look forward to reaching more milestones.” Mpho Letsholonyane shares love and cheer Supersport and Power Lunch host Mpho Letsholonyane
is partnering with some of South Africa’s most recognisable brands to help
spread cheer during lockdown. The campaign, dubbed #LevelsOfHappy will be a month old this
week, using her 250 000 strong Instagram page following to
share the adoration and joyfulness. “Being on talk radio has given me somewhat of
a front-row seat to the difficulties that people face daily as a result of Covid-19,
as people are not able to work or fully fend for their families. All the while
trying to keep safe. As a result, I’ve received countless emails and calls from
those seeking some form of assistance. “We’ve had a very difficult past few
months as a country. I may not be unable to assist everyone, but this is my way
of spreading a little bit of happiness where I can. If I can put a smile on at
least one person’s face, I would have done my bit,” she said. In the coming weeks, fans of the broadcaster
can look forward to more giveaways from variety of brands including Unilever,
LeCreuset, Openview and Castle while she is also calling on brands to aid her
in the cause that will put smiles on thousands of South Africans. Twelve Facebook leaders from South Africa, Nigeria and
Kenya selected as part of the Facebook Community Accelerator Programme As part of the global Facebook Community Leadership
initiative launched in 2018, the Community Accelerator programme invests in
leaders who are building communities around the world including bringing people
together, offering encouragement, and driving change. Following the call for
applications in March 2020, 77 community leaders from around the world were
chosen, with 12 selected from Sub-Saharan Africa. Commenting, Kezia Anim-Addo, Head of
Communications for Sub-Saharan Africa said: “We know community leaders can do amazing things when they have
adequate support from others, tools to get the job done, funding to grow and
belief in themselves. The Facebook Community Accelerator will enable these
great communities to make an even greater positive impact in the world, and we
hope that through the support of the programme these communities will have
extraordinary impact, even in extraordinary times.” Community leaders selected from across Nigeria,
Kenya and South Africa as part of the Facebook
Community Accelerator include: Hauwa Ojeifo, She Writes Woman
(Nigeria), Bright
Shiitemii, Mental360
(Kenya), Lauren Dallas, Future Females
(South Africa) – Tony Onuk, The Root Hub(Nigeria)
– Roothub was started in 2014 to provide a safe space for youths to
build their ideas, grow their businesses, and access support, Esther Mwikalii, Metta NBO
(Kenya) – founded in 2015 as an entrepreneurs’ network with the goal of
bringing together founders, policy makers and investors to collaborate, Refilwe Nkomo, Visual Arts
Network South Africa (South Africa), Eyitayo Ogunmola, Utiva
(Nigeria), Naadiya Moosajee, WomEng
(South Africa), Abiodun Adereni,
Helpmum
(Nigeria), Dillion Phiri, Creative
Nestlings (South Africa) – Rufaro Mudimu, Enke
(South Africa), Tariro Bure, MINDS
(South Africa) Business moves Viu South Africa and Discovery announce strategic
partnership  to entertain South Africans Viu, a leading pan-regional OTT video service from
PCCW Media Group with more than 41 million monthly active users*, has announced
its new international content offering for Viu Premium subscribers in South
Africa. Viu South Africa has partnered with Discovery, a
leading real-life entertainment company, to bring Discovery’s TLC content to
South Africa’s Viu Premium subscribers. Viu Premium subscribers can now access
their favourite international reality shows including hit shows such as Cake Boss, 90-Day Fiancé, 90-Day
Fiancé: Before the 90 Days, Body
Bizarre, Dr. Pimple Popper,
My 600-Lb Life, and Sister Wives. Ryan Solovei, Country Manager of Viu South Africa,
said, “We take great pride in delivering highly relevant content in the form of
local premium shows, international hits and our very own Viu Original
productions to entertain our fellow South Africans. With TLC content now as a
part of the Viu offering, we are confident that our audiences will have more
reasons to keep coming back. We are thankful for the support we have received
from audiences as well as our partners in the past year since our launch in the
country. This inspires us to keep upping our efforts to delight the South
African audience through Viu.” Sting Content Production creating agile content
for the ever-changing landscape TBWA\South Africa has announced the launch of
Sting Content Production, a creative unit which will focus exclusively on agile
video production to cater to the growing demand for fast, cost-effective and
high-quality video content. In the past two years, Africa has seen explosive
growth in consumption of video content with the rise of short video platforms
and faster connectivity. Sting, based in Johannesburg will operate as an
independent unit backed by TBWA\ with the ability to create video content at
speed from creative ideation through to production. As part of the TBWA\
collective, Sting will also be able to leverage the agencies’ strategic and
creative collective in an agile and pragmatic way for clients. Raphael Gavin will lead the content production
unit as the executive producer. “I’m thrilled at the opportunity to head TBWA\’s
content production unit,” he said. “Brands today are competing with everything
in modern culture for attention, and they need content that is timely,
culturally relevant, on brand and in-tune. That’s what Sting, an agile film
making collective built to produce creative and engaging content at the speed
of culture, will deliver. The studio will add to the creative strength that
makes the TBWA\South Africa collective so unique.” SchoolMedia secures rights to distribute international brand masks As the epidemic that we are currently faced with
unfolds, the wide use of fabric masks has been declared compulsory for all
South Africans when leaving their homes or coming into contact with
others. Champion,
a well-known, sought after, international clothing brand specialising in
sportswear, is heeding to the call by producing high quality, triple layered
face masks. Home grown youth marketing agency SchoolMedia has secured full
distribution rights of these masks in South Africa. “As a company active in the youth market, much of
our business is centred around activations. Of course, this is impossible now.
Among other actions we have taken to pivot the business and our offerings, this
is one such move. We wanted to bring a dynamic to the market that perhaps
others are not doing at the moment. A face mask that not only protects but also
brings joy to people – particularly the youth – and what better way than a cool
branded item. The youth after all do love a good clothing brand,” said Khethi
Ngwenya, entrepreneur and CEO of SchoolMedia. The masks can be purchased through the Champion
pop up store. AMPlify signs industry heavyweights DJ Cuppy and
Shimza AMPlify, the recently launched Arts &
Entertainment division of Eclipse Communications, has added renowned
Nigerian DJ, producer and philanthropist, DJ
Cuppy and local homegrown star Shimza
to their burgeoning and prestigious client list. The team will be working with
DJ Cuppy on her upcoming global album launch, and a special project with
Shimza. Said head of new business at AMPlify, Kate
Thompson-Duwe, “We are so excited to have just launched AMPlify and already
have two artists of this calibre on our books. We have huge plans for both
artists, so watch this space!” Data collection app transforming business
efficiency & readiness SafeCol Light is new
app-based solution that aims to transfigure the way businesses are able to capture,
store and analyse important data during the screening process on every
individual, employee and visitor to a business on a daily basis. A total of seven regulations drive employers to
take specific precautionary measures to monitor and mitigate any and all risk. With predications of singular screenings having
to remain in place for at least the next 12 to 18 months, businesses need to
adopt and implement efficient, fast and accurate record-keeping systems that
are complaint to legislation while being sustainable for long-term use. The SafeCol app was built to reform the health
and safety industry, transferring all paper-heavy checks into a safe and secure
cloud-hosted system that is easily accessible and fast to use. In previous
months, the developers of SafeCol were able to accurately predict the sudden need
for tools that enable data capturing in the face of a looming uncertain future. The app is free to download on the AppStore and
PlayStore, suitable for Apple and Android devices. It is hosted and developed
in the UK making it accessible and usable acr Making
moves Tsebo Solutions Group and WantedTech team up to bridge the
digital divide for offline learners Tsebo Solutions
Group has become one of the first South African corporate donors to give a
gadget via the new online technology donation platform, WantedTech.org, with 27
laptops and 13 desktop PCs donated in an initiative championed by Tsebo’s IT
Department. WantedTech is a
social enterprise with a digital platform that allows private and corporate
donors to connect directly with tech savvy applicants to donate computers that
can help scholars and students access online resources and flourish
academically in an increasingly digital world. The used but fully functioning devices are
distributed based on the specific needs and aspirations of each applicant as
well as their geographic location. By matching donors with applicants who are
nearby, WantedTech offers a more direct way around many of the issues that have
traditionally come with distribution and logistics in underserved
communities. The WantedTech
platform allows corporate donors to choose who they donate to. Tsebo, selected
learners in Grade 11 and 12, as well as first year university, college and TVET
students for their laptop donations. In addition, desktop computers were
distributed to young applicants in charity and education from underserviced communities
throughout South Africa. For the Diary Africa Internet Summit, 2020 to take place online The Africa Internet Summit, 2020 (AIS’20)is
set to take place online on 14-18 September 2020. This is the first time the
annual meeting is held online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The meeting was
scheduled to take place in the Democratic Republic of Congo in June 2020. The Africa Internet
Summit, 2020will provide a platform for technocrats, government
and business to discuss policies, trends and challenges in growing Internet for
sustainable development in Africa and the Indian Ocean Region. The registration
and meeting platform details for the event will be shared soon. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.