There are challenges still facing media measurement in Africa, but the mobile phone, for one thing, is improving matters, as is the Pan African Media Research Organisation. Although media research throughout Africa has improved, there are still many challenges. Key
among these is that a lack of joint industry committees (JICs) makes it
difficult to get stakeholders to collaborate in order to establish best
practice and methodology for data collection. JICs are
generally the central point for stakeholders in order to put out tenders and
establish gold standards for measurement. The South African model has worked
successfully, with two main JICs, the Broadcast Research Council (BRC) and the
Publisher Research Council (PRC) as well as some others. But
there are few establishment surveys across the African continent,  mainly because of a lack of funding and a
lack of collaboration between stakeholders within countries. Establishment
surveys are essential in order to create a hub survey that other researchers
can use to weight their surveys to the correct numbers. The
absence of up-to-date census figures is also a big problem; the census data in
many countries is over 20 years old. Multinationals and local advertisers all
need media research information in order to ensure they spend their money
efficiently and target their consumers in the best possible way. Also
important are levels of urbanisation and literacy levels. But advertising
agencies find it difficult to source reliable media research information in
order to build their media plans. The end result is that advertising revenue
across the continent is not what it should be. In order
to actualise the potential of the various consumers across the many African
countries there is a need for harmonised research. Advertisers need to segment
and compare markets across various territories. There are a few segmentation
models that are currently used in syndicated surveys, for example, socio
economic measures (SEMs), the lifestyle standard measure (LSMs) and also the
Pan African Media Research Organisation (PAMRO) socio-economic segments (SESs).
There is currently work being done on trying to consolidate in order to have
one measure with which to compare most countries. More modern research
methodologies Using the mobile phone to collect
information has become popular with companies on the continent. It’s cost
effective, can reach rural communities and measures demographics as well as
media usage. Passive
media measurement is something which is being explored, as well as hybrid
models for TV measurement. A television audience measurement (TAM) panel is
costly to install and maintain in rural areas and many of the leading research
companies are looking to measure outside of First World countries more cost
effectively. Measurement
of big data is becoming more important. Social media, digital advertising and
online shopping sales all need to be integrated with the traditional research surveys. Data
integration is the key to finding the total reach of advertising campaigns.
Measurement in silos for different media types is out-dated. Fused data sets
for media usage and brand consumption are becoming essential. More and
more advertisers are doing their own proprietary research on their brands in
order to better understand their consumers. This, together with their Customer
Relationship Management (CRM) data, needs to be integrated in one platform to
identify the best sales opportunities and to measure existing campaigns more
effectively How close are we to finding these
solutions? We are getting closer to solutions
and the new decade will show rapid growth in this area. The foundations have
been laid in more countries and everyone seems to recognise the need for media
research in order to grow advertising spend and thereby grow GDP in Africa. Some progress is: •       Harmonised segmentation is currently
being used and expanded on. •       Fused data sets are available in some
countries. •       As new technologies become more available
to consumers via their mobile devices and more affordable mobile internet,
opportunities for new methods of researching the market are opening up. This is
currently being acted on across a few African countries. •       Passive measurement is being explored in
some markets. •       Multinationals are spending more money on
collecting their own research. •       The PAMRO country reports on media
research covered a record 26 countries in 2019 and will cover even more
territories in 2020. •       The signs are that more and more
stakeholders understand the growth potential on the African continent and will
hopefully invest in the research to make this happen faster than it has in the
past. Jennifer Daniel is regional director of Telmar, Africa/Asia-Pacific region. She has decades of experience in the South African research market, including being general manager of group research and audience strategy at e.tv. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.