The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media industry. #CreateChange Loeries partnership with Tractor showcases Digital OOH innovation The Loeries Company and Tractor Outdoor have partnered to showcase the strength of out of home (OOH) and digital out-of-home media (DOOH) in Africa and Middle East. “We jumped at the opportunity to partner with the Loeries in the Out Of Home category as we want to shine a light on one of the most exciting and creative mediums currently available, and in doing so inspire and invigorate more and more creatives to make use of the technological and creative advancements in DOOH and OOH,” said Tractor Outdoor CEO, Simon Wall. “The Loeries #CreateChange for 2020 suited our partnership as it fits the innovation and creativity impact that Tractor takes prides in providing its clients. More importantly the global shift to DOOH is fast gaining momentum as ‘dynamic’ screens, varying in size, respond in real time to consumers, at the likes of roadsides, garage forecourts, in malls, airports and buses. Marketers from Paris to New York and Dubai to Cape Town are harnessing the powerful trend that has digital screens responding in real time to factors like traffic flows, weather, sales or store footfalls.” Loeries board member, Tseliso Rangaka, said, “Outdoor is a huge part of the Africa and Middle East media landscape. Despite the large footprint, Innovative creative execution in this space is still a rarity, more so when it comes to digital outdoor. For this reason, I am  excited to see the Loeries partner with Tractor on a mission to help raise the standard of creativity in this category”. Finalists of the third annual Absa Business Day Supplier Development Awards have been announced.  The Awards – presented in partnership with Absa, as well as Fetola, Cold Press Media, and Arena Holdings – showcase supplier development best practice, and are essential for celebrating the efforts of large South African companies who have committed themselves to building inclusive and transformed supply chains that thrive. The 2020 finalists (audited by BDO South Africa), in alphabetical order, are: The Awards will be preceded by a series of free digitised events with the finalists, geared towards supply chain and supplier development professionals on 1 September, 2 September, and 3 September 2020. The Anzisha Prize, a partnership with African Leadership Academy and Mastercard Foundation, is celebrating 10 African entrepreneurs whose transitions into entrepreneurship started before the age of 25. The inspirational business leaders have been inducted into the Anzisha Prize Hall of Fame for 2020. The Hall of Fame features a diverse group of five female and five male entrepreneurs whose transitions from high school or university into entrepreneurship demonstrates the importance of starting early to shape entrepreneurial careers. The Hall of Fame honorees are entrepreneurs from various industries and represent six African countries, which includes South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Zambia, Cameroon and Egypt. Their stories of success and triumphs are a source of inspiration and point of reference for young Africans. “As the youth unemployment rate increases and young people battle to find gainful employment, we want to ignite conversations about the support needed for young people to pursue entrepreneurship as a career choice. Educators, parents, investors and policymakers have the power to influence the decisions of young people to view entrepreneurship as an option,” said Melissa Mbazo-Ekpenyong, deputy director at Anzisha Prize. 2020 Hall of Fame: How do we move forward together as clients and agencies, in building a more diverse and inclusive South African ad industry? The journey of diversity and inclusion in SA Adland has been mixed, with great gains in some pockets and huge frustration in others. As much as ownership is a key component for a transformed industry, there is need to look beyond. Transformation at the entry import in also key, are youth of colour being equipped to attain success and how are women being prioritised at all levels. How do we move forward together and create an industry that generations to come will feel proud of? Join Bongani Chinkanda, founder of Diaries of a Salesman in conversation with Pepe Marais (group chief creative officer, Joe Public United); Khensani Nobanda (group executive: group marketing & corporate affairs, Nedbank) and Veli Ngubane (founding partner & chief creative officer, Avatar). Date:   Thursday, July 30 Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.