The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: It’s time to Think Big, says PSG Veteran
business journalist Bruce Whitfield is hosting a web series for PSG designed to
“look beyond the moment, to solve for solutions, and plan for possibilities”.
Think Big is a response to the impact of coronavirus as people and businesses
struggle to “adapt, scramble to adjust, and clamber to create new ways to
thrive. They’ve had to focus on the present, navigate the urgent, and figure
out the ‘how’”. “To
do this, requires a clear eye, the right information, and expert advice,” said
Tracy Hirst, PSG’s chief marketing officer. “So, we’ve gathered a collection of
bigger picture thinkers to help unpack the future. We’ve created a series of unusual
dialogues to bring you thought leadership from both thought leaders, and
executives from the PSG team.” Whitfield,
whose style of journalism allows him to generate fascinating discussions, said:
“It’s not every day you get one-on-one time with some of the most remarkable
people in their fields and get to learn more about them, what they do and why
they do it. I feel so privileged to be tapping into some of the country’s
sharpest minds and look forward to sharing those conversations with you.” The series kicked off with Jacques Pauw, investigative journalist and author of The President’s Keepers who took a closer look at the tobacco industry. Just exactly what is going on, and how is the industry continuing to flourish?  Pauw reveals all sorts of unhealthy detail behind this highly profitable industry. Watch the full webinar here. Next
week Tuesday, Guy Leitch, editor of SA Flyer, takes a look at where air travel
might be going and what needs to be fixed to get it there. Nick Mallett
features in the third webinar, discussing the future of rugby in a post-Covid
19 world. The fourth webinar in the series features Herman Mashaba, who
discusses his time as Mayor of Johannesburg and why he decided to step down, as
well as his newly-released book The Accidental Mayor. Adam Habib,
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Johannesburg, joins the series to talk
about the role of leadership in mitigating inequalities in higher education. People moves Nielsen is shedding some 3 500 jobs across the globe CEO David Kenny elaborated on the move in prepared comments released prior to Tuesday’s Opening Bell on Wall Street. He said the move was designed to prioritise resources and place a focus on “key strategic initiatives, higher margin products and services, and greater efficiency”. This will see Nielsen exit
“several smaller, underperforming markets and non-core businesses” over the
next six months. For the full story, click here. Business moves New Wave Outdoor Media rolls out crucial
Western Cape government COVID-19 messages With more than 60 000 cases reported
across all its sub districts, the Western Cape Government
is currently rolling out an awareness campaign targeting
the province’s population with specific coronavirus messaging aimed at
influencing and reinforcing appropriate behavioural patterns and safety protocols. To assist authorities in the quest to
reach as many people in the Province as possible, experts in outdoor media New Wave Outdoor Media has been tasked with this
important communication printing and flighting over 9 500
posters with decisive messaging
on safety Protocols. It was determined that street pole posters would provide
the best means to achieve this goal and reach the objective which is to put the
sanctioned posters on all street poles that are legally allowed to be utilised
in this manner. New Wave Outdoor Media deemed it an
honour to be able to contribute and provide this particular poster solution
with its critical educational to as much of the province’s population as
possible. The COVID19 poster
awareness campaign will run until 31 August 2020. BCW unveils BCW Nexus for a world in rapid change Global communications agency Burson Cohn &
Wolfe has aunched a new approach to public affairs designed to guide clients
through an era of rapid change and unprecedented complexity. BCW Nexus is a complete reinvention of the old
public affairs model, based on a deep understanding of global, systemic trends
that have been accelerated in 2020 by the worldwide pandemic crisis and the
dramatic civil movements. To build a new model for public affairs, one that
serves both business objectives as well as social purpose, BCW’s team of global
experts came together to produce a set of powerful insights about the way
influencing decision-making in society is being revolutionised. To navigate this unprecedented complexity, BCW
Nexus offers a networked approach to public affairs that combines bottom-up
with top-down engagement that creates real impact on decision makers, beginning
with a set of strategic questions to address the new realities. Commenting on the launch of BCW Nexus,Robyn de Villiers, Chairman and CEO, BCW Africa
said, “Any business or society leader who wants to advocate for change
has to understand the seismic shift in world affairs that has been building for
several years, and now accelerated dramatically by the global pandemic. The
traditional ‘top down’ model of decision making in public affairs is no longer
the solution. In its place is a ‘top down’ combined with a ‘bottom up’ model
where change can occur suddenly, spontaneously, dramatically.” Rejuvenation of local print media Contrary
to popular belief, local papers are healthy and thriving. People anticipate the
arrival of their local paper delivery on a weekly basis, and have been
delighted with the growing array of inserts and the innovative ways brands are
using this media. The
Rosebank Killarney Gazette demonstrated a myriad of print insert products
recently – from the impressive insert jacket, to an A4 and A3 single sheet
insert, a PowerWrap and an 8-page feature insert with an interactive
competition by Canon. Readers were thrilled with the range of advertising and
were captured by the brands using these different formats. “A
huge advantage of using print innovation products, and even inserts and
competition elements in our papers, is they encourage people to touch and feel
your brand and increase the potential to keep the information in the home for
longer” said sales director of SPARK Media, Olav Westphal. The
print order of the Rosebank Killarney Gazette has increased from 27 000 to 40
000 copies effective 26 May to incorporate areas that were previously part of
the Joburg East Express and North Eastern Tribune areas, thus expanding their
footprint. Standard Bank looks to inspire hope with new
brand positioning All brands and businesses evolve. As the biggest
bank in Africa by assets, Standard Bank is on a journey that reflects the
evolution of the lives and experiences of its customers and all Africans. This is what motivated Standard Bank to change
its brand positioning and tagline and adopt one that epitomises where it sees
its role in Africa today. “Our customers often ask themselves if their
dreams can be. Can it be that I will one day own my dream home? Can it be that
I will be able to build enough wealth to take care of my children? Can it be
that we can turn a local business into a global player? As their financial
partner it is our responsibility and privilege to answer these questions. And
we do that proudly in a resounding message which says, ‘It Can Be’. This is our
new tagline,” said Thulani Sibeko, Group Marketing Executive, Standard Bank. ‘It Can Be’ reflects how Standard Bank has
evolved, and continues to evolve, in a way our clients expect, and it
represents our positive attitude about Africa and the possibilities that exist
on the continent. This refreshed position is about inspiring belief
in Africa’s future while showcasing Standard Bank’s client-centric and
inventive solutions.  It’s about being bold and innovative changemakers
who are more curious, and more responsive. Innovative
e-commerce platform seeks to restore the art of gifting An innovative e-commerce
platform is making waves by changing how South African consumers exchange
gifts. Brand Hubb has applied its online acumen to redesign the age-old social
practice of giving and receiving gifts. “We are expanding our
business offering by leveraging technology to improve or reinvent ‘stuffy’
tradition,” said Rob Anderson, CEO of Brand Hubb. “The next big idea is usually found by
identifying and resolving areas that cause consumers pain or stress”. Brand Hubb’s Chip In
gifting solution is a case in point. It was built to address the pain points
that most consumers experience when giving gifts. Chip In is an online
solution that unites the gift-giver and gift-receiver around the
common goal of a perfect gifting experience. The gift-receiver, or the person organising a
function or party on his or her behalf, can register on brandhubb.com
and use the ‘Create
Chip In List’ feature to set up a wish list of suitable gifts,
with an end-date for that event or function. “You can think of Chip In as a
virtual store, pre-stocked with the goods that the gift-receiver really wants,”
said Anderson. “Each gift-giver is able to select and pay for an item on the
wish list or make a cash contribution towards same”. World
Out of Home Organization appoints New Commercial Arts for biggest ever OOH
global marketing campaign The
World Out of Home Organization (WOO) – which represents Out of Home media
owners, national associations and specialist media agencies worldwide
– has appointed New Commercial Arts to handle a major global campaign to
promote the medium as Covid-19 lockdown eases. New Commercial Arts was
appointed following a competitive pitch. The
campaign will run on OOH sites donated by media owners in countries worldwide.
It will be the biggest OOH campaign of all time, with support from
national OOH associations and specialist OOH agencies as well as the multiple
OOH media owners, all working in concert. WOO
President Tom Goddard said: This appointment and the massive campaign to come,
marks an important milestone for global Out of Home. It shows the industry
coming together to lead the advertising recovery from Covid-19 by showing
a united and trusted global medium at its best and most effective, at a time
when other major media channels are not providing safe platforms for Global
Brands. “We’re
delighted to have appointed New Commercial Arts, an exciting new agency with a
tremendous pedigree, as our first advertising agency and we are delighted with
the initial work they have produced, which will run in July and September.” Hook, Line & Sinker Communications to launch
RoomRaccoon to SA Market Hook, Line & Sinker (HLS) Communications has
been appointed as agency of choice for global start-up,
RoomRaccoon. Starting in July, HLS will introduce the innovative cloud
software brand to the South African hospitality market through a series of
media activities across traditional and digital channels, while supporting with
content development and B2B marketing initiatives. RoomRaccoon is a fast-growing start-up that is
revolutionising software for independent hotels in more than 40 countries. We
are extremely excited to welcome them to South Africa and support their local
marketing and communications journey while delivering the ultimate campaign
Sinker,” said HLS head honcho, Adam Hunter. BBC World Service launches new podcast
for audiences in Africa The BBC World Service has launched The Comb, a brand new weekly podcast for young listeners in Africa, presented by Zimbabwean journalist Kim Chakanetsa. As the name suggests, Chakanetsa and her
team will be combing the continent for the stories that matter. The podcast’s
mission is to unearth surprising, fascinating and relevant stories. They won’t
be shying away from tackling tough subjects. The Comb is
made by the team behind the continent’s leading radio brand, BBC Focus on Africa, known for its
unrivalled coverage of the continent.  The debut episode of The Comb will
be looking at the impact of the coronavirus pandemic particularly on students
and those starting out in their careers. Chakanetsa said:  “The Comb is a thrilling opportunity for us
to seek out stories and voices that might otherwise go unreported or
unheard.  It allows us to combine the depth of BBC Africa’s journalism and
the curiosity of our listeners.” Eddie Chitate launches streaming platform NOFTV Eddie Chitate launched Brainstorm Entertainment in
South Africa, with Amabubesi as his partners. Over the years, Brainstorm would
see success with film and television shows for both local and international
markets. Now Brainstorm Entertainment has been responsible
for negotiating a licensing deal with Vibe
Mediafor Sub-Saharan Africa as well as negotiating with NBC/Universal
to be the first African producer to create original African shows for E!
channel 124 on DStv. His TV reel speaks volumes about his creative
producing abilities, being the first to introduce E! Red Carpet coverage for South Africa’s events as well as Beyond the Red Carpet for the SAFTAS. June 2020 saw Chitate through Brainstorm Entertainment, launch a streaming platform, NOFTV, targeted at urban youth across the African continent. Making
moves Radio 2020: Powering the digital audio revolution [Free Webinar] Mediamark and Kagiso Media Radio are teaming up with global Digital Audio Advertising Solutions technology provider, AdsWizz, to show how digital audio is powering radio into 2020 and beyond. The media platforms will be hosting a free ‘Radio
2020’ webinar on July 16. ‘Radio 2020’ will unpack how to maximise campaign
targeting, execution, and measurement with the most engaged digital radio audiences
across the East Coast Radio (ECR) and Jacaranda FM platforms. The radio landscape is changing. People are
listening while they work (often from home), and so the peak time has become
anytime. The reach of radio is also changing moving beyond how far the radio
waves travel, becoming a truly global medium. Who is listening? What are they listening to? How
are they engaging? What does the future hold? All these questions and more will
be answered during the webinar. Hosted by Jacaranda FM Drive Show presenter Philicity
Reeken, ‘Radio 2020’ will look at the Digital Audio landscape in South Africa
and the digital evolution. It takes place on 16 July at 13h00. Best-loved British shows find a home on the M-Net
Channels Known for their blockbuster Hollywood fare
alongside high-quality local productions, the M-Net Channels are expanding
their must-see entertainment slate with beloved series from Great
Britain. In addition to the ITV hit game show The Chase – which now freshens up the
M-Net 101 day-time schedule with premiere episodes on weekdays – the
MultiChoice Group has also acquired staple British soaps and dramas. Count in
UK viewing institutions such as Coronation
Street and Emmerdale as
well as the unique war saga World on
Fire. These shows will be available on DStv Premium’s flagship channel,
M-Net 101, or M-Net City, which of course is also available to DStv Compact
Plus and Compact viewers. More good news is that Love Island Season 6, filmed in
Cape Town, will create a big buzz across Africa soon, from the first week in
August. “Our hand-picked selection of the best of the
best British reality shows have been audience favourites for many years,” said
Jan du Plessis, Director: M-Net Channels. “We’ve learnt that the viewers of our
M-Net’s general entertainment channels are global citizens who enjoy a variety
of stories from different countries and cultures. Adding a wider selection of
British genres will not only enable us to bring more fresh content to African
shores but also spice up some of our day-time schedules.” Huawei soars in brand value, goes up in BrandZ
World’s Most Valuable Brands rankings Huawei is steadfast in its commitment to innovation and driving value for global consumers. In the latest BrandZ Top 100 Most Valuable Brands study, published by WPP and Kantar, Huawei is ranked 45th, up two places from last year, with a US$29.4 billion brand value (nine percent increase YoY). 2020 is also the fifth consecutive year where the annual publication features Huawei as one of the top 50 most valuable brands worldwide, a testament to Huawei’s success in executing its long-term vision of building a fully connected, intelligent world. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.