There aren’t too many newspaper Facebook sites that boast a whopping 1 940 028 followers. The Daily Sun, which recently celebrated its 18th birthday during one of the toughest economic environments in South Africa’s history, does. Neither do South Africa’s tabloids
have such longevity. Recently, Media24 announced that the Sunday Sun and Son of
Sondag would be closed. The Daily Sun, while it might have lost circulation
over the past few years, is still thriving. The
reason, said Daily Sun editor in chief, Mapula Nkosi, is the paper’s “keen
understanding of the readers that we are serving and giving them the content
they want and need”. The
Daily Sun, she added, speaks “the language of the readers from various kasis,
suburbs and rural areas and deeply understand their social conditions, thereby
offering them content that always empowers and entertains them”. Nkosi said Daily Sun
readers not
only engaged with the content but have also formed a strong community known as ‘Sunland’.
“Over the years this has given birth to a powerful SunPower brand where our
more affluent readers volunteer to solve problems of our less fortunate readers,”
she said. In early May 2020, the
Daily Sun published
its last print issue of the newspaper for regions other than Gauteng, Limpopo,
Mpumalanga and North West on Thursday. In the five remaining provinces –
Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Northern Cape, Free State and KwaZulu-Natal – it is
available digitally. At first glance, this
would seem odd, considering the issues of expensive data in South Africa. But
as the Publisher Research Council of South Africa recently reported in its
PAMS2019 release, there has been a 64% increase in smartphone
penetration. As lead researcher Peter Langschmidt said at the time, “It’s “not
a case of mobile first, it’s fast becoming a case of mobile only”. He said with over 300 000 free wi-fi hotspots across the country,
office usage and free mobile data services such as Moya, smartphones allow
people to read everywhere – from commuter hubs to public spaces and stores.
This has resulted in the rise of reading time. “We are constantly
engaged with our users on how they access and experience our content. A high
percentage – more than 90% – of our online readers told us recently that our
site is easy to use and highly comparable to other news sites,” Nkosi said. “We
are cognisant that we have to compete largely with social media platforms for
their data usage and this informs how we package our content. Quick and easily
accessible news is key as most of our users utilise mobile phones and are
regularly on the go. Up to 85% of all our users access us via cellphones and we
know they also utilise free wi-fi hotspots in various cities during their daily
commute.” On the move to digital
only editions, Nkosi said the move had seen healthy increases in the Eastern
Cape and Free State, while KZN and the Western Cape remain the two largest
provincial digital audiences outside Gauteng. “In fact, the Western Cape and
KZN digital audiences have outnumbered print readership in those provinces for
some time, so the transition from print to digital has been an ongoing and
natural process,” she said. With close to two million
Facebook followers, the Daily Sun has a powerful social media presence. And
it’s one the publication uses extensively. “Facebook
is our strongest referral channel by far,” Nkosi said. “The demographics mirror
our site demographics very closely. We generate around 3.4 million engagements
per week on Facebook with thousands of comments each day. Our Facebook channel
is also monetised as part of our native advertising executions.” Classic
‘red top’ tabloids are usually renowned for their headlines and street pole
posters. It’s something the Daily Sun team take seriously. “The whole team discusses the posters at our afternoon
diary conference meetings, but greater credit goes to both our news and
production desks. We have lively debates about our posters at these meetings,
with loads of laughter and fun amidst all the contestation,” Nkosi said. Not fun, however, is the
impact of Covid-19 and its impact on publishing and, of course, readers. “We are on a constant
evolution with our coverage of this pandemic. Our main focus is to give readers
reliable information to counter a lot of fake news shared on social media
platforms so that they can make well informed decisions,” Nkosi explained. “We also use our various
platforms to start important conversations around issues that concern our readers,
especially where their rights are violated or where important state resources
are wasted. And of course, we ensure that we amplify the African perspective
when it comes to how our readers respond to challenges brought on by this
pandemic.” Corporate social
investment, always important, has been scaled up. “We invested time and
resources since the beginning of lockdown by amplifying our SunPower brand into
a TV platform with the launch of our Sun’ceda TV programme on Mzansi Wethu last
Thursday,” said Nkosi. “Since 2 July, Mzansi can
now see SunPower at work as we knock on many doors and highlight our readers’
unique challenges and step in to help them. In the next three months, we will
help 13 families and this is highly needed during this crisis.” Deon du Plessis, the
Daily Sun’s founder, died in 2011 just before he was due to go on leave. What
does Nkosi think he would say about the title’s ongoing success? “We would like to think of Deon as a very important ancestor and guiding light whose values of innovation still influence the brand’s editorial uniqueness,” she said. “Our founding publisher always advocated for workers to have an important voice in our national discourse, and Daily Sun ensures that we do not stray away from that objective in our daily reporting.” Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.