With the current lockdown and temporary ban of non-essential products and services, consumers have switched to digital shopping alternatives with 37% of South Africans saying they are shopping more online, according to a recent Nielsen syndicated study on the impact of COVID-19 on consumer behaviour in South Africa. Nielsen South Africa retailer lead Gareth Paterson comments; “Amid the strange new world of COVID-19, online grocery shopping has been a lifeline for many South African consumers who have desperately sought out safe and secure shopping alternatives amidst the uncertainty of lockdown living. “As a result, available online shopping platforms,
especially for groceries, medicines, and other necessary items, have seen a
surge in usage over the last few weeks as consumers prefer not to venture into
stores and have increasingly opted for these reduced touchpoint alternatives.” This development points to an interesting shift in shopping
behaviour. Where previously fashion, travel and entertainment categories have
been the frontrunners for consumers to enter the online retail sphere, with
grocery categories, particularly packaged and fresh goods, being slower to gain
traction; the lockdown has now accelerated adoption of online shopping for some
of these categories. South Africa’s online grocery shopping penetration and usage
has been quite niche and of the 58% of South Africans with internet access,
only 1-2% had regularly purchased food and groceries online and only 8 -10%
have purchased in the past year. However, one-third of consumers had expressed
a willingness to shop online. This coupled with the current lockdown scenario means
there is likely to be prolonged behavioural changes in in-store and online
shopping, with services like click and collect, automated online subscriptions,
and the personal shopping all having the potential for growth. Unfortunately, this rapid rise in popularity has also
highlighted constraints in current online offerings, for example, extended
delivery timelines for online shopping options, as retailers have had to boost
their online capacity to match the increasing online shopper traffic and
maintain their ability to fulfil the demand from consumers. It is important to note though, similar challenges have been
faced around the world, and retailers that have managed to scale up their
supply and delivery logistics have seen exponential growth in online retailing.
For example, Spain and Australia, where penetration of online shopping for
grocery goods has previously been lower, have shown sizeable increases in
online retail sales, a clear sign that online retail shopping is starting to yield
benefits for consumers. Another outcome of the current situation is the emergence of
local innovations to fill the need gap. For example, services where consumers
place an order with a retailer and have their order delivered to their car in a
pre-arranged parking bay have emerged, ensuring not only increased health and
safety but speedier fulfilment of online orders. Existing online retailers have also quickly shifted their
existing product offering to supply essential goods, such as a large eCommerce
gifting platform now delivering fresh produce and former Uber Eats drivers who
are maintaining an income through the delivery of groceries for retailers. Paterson says what this rapid evolution in online makes
clear is that technology adoption in the current situation is paving the way
for a sustained development of online shopping, in terms of infrastructure and
consumer acceptance. “We can therefore expect a permanent uplift in online
shopping numbers – albeit off a small base in South Africa – even after the
pandemic has ended, since many behaviours adopted during the COVID-19 period
are likely to translate into more permanent long term habits.” However, Paterson cautions; “Retailers will need to quickly
address the main barriers or hesitations that non-users had expressed in the
past- be it freshness guarantees or free delivery. It will be critical for
retailers to make the migration from offline to online as seamless as possible
by communicating potential stock outages, advising of delayed delivery
timelines, and providing additional online navigation tools and support to
first-time users on their platforms will be key to keeping consumers online
once stores reopen their doors.” *ONLINE STATS: Source: Nielsen’s Connected Commerce, Shopper Trends, and COVID-19 syndicated surveys. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.