The Media Online’s weekly column delivering news of award wins, entries, competitions, dates to note and winners in the media industry. HaveYouHeard co-founder and head of strategy, Ryan McFadyen, who was the only South Africa invited to judge at the inaugural DNA Paris last year, will return as a judge this year – virtually. DNA Paris, an award show and design conference, was founded to celebrate fresh and remarkable design thinking across a multitude of disciplines from architecture and interior design to landscaping, product, and graphic design. It brings together the world’s bestselling creative thinkers, innovators, designers and entrepreneurs for three days of workshops, exhibitions, master classes, a design lab and the awards themselves, which attract upwards of 5 000 entries. Having previously been acknowledged as one of the 30 most creative business leaders in Africa by Fast Company Magazine, McFadyen was invited to judge in 2019 and will return (virtually) in 2020. He is the only judge from South Africa and one of only three from the continent. “Last year, what stood out for me, was the importance of designing with a purpose, and how deeply ingrained it has become as an integral component of design thinking,” he said. “Every top design had a deep understanding of the audience at heart driving the design. The winning pieces also demonstrated real practicality and innovation in making a product better at doing its job. LIONS LIVE is a platform for the most inspiring creative ideas and forward-thinking people on the planet. From Tokyo to Nairobi, from Berlin to São Paulo, the creative community will come together this June to shape the way forward. It will be a global meeting of minds for those who believe in the power of creative possibility. In extreme moments of crisis, creativity is more important than ever. During a time when a business as usual mentality is a risk and tried and tested methods go out the window, we’re presented with an opportunity to adapt to, but also shape, the world that awaits us. The future is a blank canvas. The future is…We don’t know what the future looks like, but we’re uniting our global community to figure it out. LIONS LIVE is for those who seek progress through creativity. Whoever you are, wherever you are. And we’ll stream it. For free. For Everyone. Join the community here. HWB Communications Pty Ltd, a marketing and PR consultancy based in Salt River, Cape Town has walked away with the coveted Best Mid-Sized PR consultancy at this year’s PRISM Awards. The consultancy’s managing director, Lynn Erasmus, said she and her team were thrilled about the win. “It is no overstatement to say that the COVID-19 pandemic has changed our industry and the way the world does business, so watching the video feed from the PRISM Awards and seeing our name appear on screen was an incredible acknowledgement for my team and gave us good reason to celebrate, albeit virtually.” The award recognises PR consultancies that employ between 10 and 39 people. “Success for HWB is finding a balance between staying focussed on a clear business strategy and the ability to be flexible enough to seize opportunities that changing trends – and times – bring to our industry,” says Erasmus. It is part of their work as a consultancy, she adds, to evolve with the changing landscape instead of just responding to it. HWB Communications won two further awards, both for work done on behalf of their client the MyCiTi Bus public transport service. The Silver and Bronze awards acknowledged work done by the consultancy and its Joint Venture partners String Communications, The Switch Design Company, and Umtha Consultancy. In celebration of 25 years of South African democracy, Anglo American partnered with City Press and ByDesign Communications to create ’25 Reasons to Believe in South Africa’, a multi-platform, content driven editorial campaign. It won a Bronze PRISM award in the Publications category at the recent PRISM Awards. Aimed at multiple audiences ranging from market investors and businesspeople, politically savvy decision-makers, engaged communities and citizens, as well as internal stakeholders, the campaign set out to increase awareness about Anglo American’s significant and multifaceted contribution to the country’s economy. For the launch, the City Press Sunday edition carried a 58-page glossy magazine with additional copies provided to Anglo American for distribution internally and to stakeholders. The City Press online audience could access all feature articles plus The Road Ahead leadership interview on a dedicated “special report” page, while a digital version of the magazine was also available. Weber Shandwick’s Tankiso Motsoeneng has been named Best Up-and-Coming Public Relations Professional at the 23rd edition of the PRISM Awards. Motsoeneng is a junior associate at Weber Shandwick Africa, having joined the Johannesburg office in 2018 as an intern. Part of the Weber Shandwick global network, the Level 1 B-BBEE accredited Weber Shandwick Africa last year won an Africa SABRE Award and an EMEA SABRE Award for a crisis and issues management campaign delivered for South African Tourism, focused on the Cape Town water emergency. Commenting on Motsoeneng’s achievement, Weber Shandwick’s CEO for Africa, Ipelegeng Thibedi, said “Tankiso’s dedication and persistence in delivering client results and working well with internal teams make her a highly valued member of the team in Johannesburg.” D&AD Awards, the most prestigious awards in design and advertising, have announced the shortlisted entries for categories across Impact, Side Hustle and Film Craft, as well as the top ranking companies and top five ranking countries by number of shortlisted entries. D&AD also announced an official partnership with Adobe that will bring the D&AD Awards 2020 and the D&AD Festival keynotes to the creative community via Adobe Live from June onwards. Further shortlists will be unveiled once the judging for each category closes, with subsequent category announcements scheduled for 28 May, 4 June and 2 September. The Shortlist follows the organisation’s recent announcement to continue their prestigious annual Awards programme despite disruptions caused by the global coronavirus outbreak. Entrants across these categories will have to wait until 9 June to find out whether they have won a Pencil, which will be announced digitally across the D&AD website and social channels. All 150 shortlisted pieces are showcased on the D&AD website. Felix & Paul Studios has won a Webby for Best Documentary, Video: Immersive and Mixed Reality, for it’s experience Traveling while Black.   The 24th Annual Webby Awards have been dubbed WFH, Webbys From Home. Traveling while Black was released at the Sundance Film Festival in January 2019, and was recently nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award in 2019 for Outstanding Original Interactive Programme. The experience was directed by Academy-award winning Roger Ross Williams, and producing partner Traveling while Black Inc, in partnership with the NY Times and Oculus. The experience is currently available to watch in virtual reality on the Oculus Quest, Rift , Go and Gear. Hailed as the “Internet’s highest honor” by The New York Times, The Webby Awards, presented by the International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences (IADAS), is the leading international awards organisation honouring excellence on the internet. 55TH Fleur du Cap Theatre Awards winners announced The winners of this year’s Fleur du Cap Theatre Awards reflected a dynamic, healthy mix of emergent and established local talent, in the view of panel judging chair Africa Melane. “The tough economic times of recent years did not rob theatre and opera lovers of an exceptional quality of productions mounted. The panel and I were once again blown away by what was on offer, especially the new South African works. It demonstrates that talent will flourish regardless of the circumstances. “From the avant garde to more mainstream entertainment, from exciting new names to seasoned stars and other specialists of the stage, this year’s winners highlight the thrilling and world-class standard of what is on offer to local audiences. We are truly fortunate.” Kinky Boots, staged at the Fugard Theatre, was the indisputable favourite of the judges, taking a total of six awards. Scott won three, with writer and director Morapeleng Molekoa winning two of these, while G7: Okwe Bokhwe (Like/Of a Goat) also won three, and The Glass Menagerie, two awards. This year’s Lifetime Achievement award honoured veteran playwright, director, actor and educator Fatima (Fatts) Dike. The Innovation Award went to Junkets Publisher’s Robin Malan and Andi Mgibantaka for their contribution to theatre arts, literature and education. He also mentioned that the organisers had decided to replace the Fleur du Cap medallion awarded to Taliep Petersen in 1999. Won for Kat and the Kings as best contribution to a musical or revue, it had been stolen from the late composer’s family home in December. Find all the winners here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.