The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. As South Africa entered lockdown, businesses closed across the country. But the media will continue to do its job, and The Media Online will continue to report on the sector. #StaySafe. This week’s BIG move: The local newspaper footprint is evolving In a bid to give local and national advertisers the
most effective reach and a more effective solution for readers and brands,
Caxton Local Media has adapted some of its local newspapers’ footprints. The recent decision was made due to the current tough economic climate coupled with the company’s solution-driven response to these changes. “Our industry, like so many others globally, has been hard hit by Covid-19 and its associated regulations and added to this, the company has incurred massive losses in advertising revenue since the beginning of the lockdown,” said managing director of Caxton Local Media and Commercial Printing, Jaco Koekemoer. It became apparent to Caxton Local Media through recent, extensive and independent research that shopping patterns, buying behaviours and demographics of people living in some areas and communities had changed drastically in a very short time. Footprints of certain local newspapers in Gauteng metropolitan areas, Limpopo, Mpumalanga and the South Coast of KwaZulu-Natal needed to be adapted for the company to provide the best solutions for readers, customers and clients in these markets. One example is in the North Eastern suburbs of Johannesburg where the North Eastern Tribune will no longer be published as an independent title. From 19 May, the footprint of the Tribune’s sister publication, the Rosebank Killarney Gazette, was expanded to cover hyperlocal news in some North East Joburg suburbs and, therefore, the Gazette will also have an increased print order to accommodate these changes. Just
before the nationwide lockdown was implemented, Caxton Local Media bid farewell
to its city-based publication, City Buzz, in Johannesburg’s CBD. This
experimental publication to reach the student market in Braamfontein, Newtown,
Maboneng and surrounds did not prove to be viable at this time. People moves East
Coast Radio appoints Malani van Huyssteen as new commercial manager East Coast Radio has announced the appointment of Malani van Huyssteen as the station’s new commercial manager. Van Huyssteen has worked in various roles in radio and her broadcast career spans over 23 years. She spent a
large part of her professional life at Primedia Broadcasting, where she started
as a direct sales rep for radio before working her way up to head of sales for
four radio stations. Van Huyssteen joins East Coast Radio from Ultimate
Media, where she was
responsible for servicing key clients and media agencies as well as developing
and implementing account strategies to grow a strong client base. East Coast Radio’s managing director,
Boni Mchunu, is looking forward to welcoming Van Huyssteen as part of the
highly performing regional sales force and her senior management team saying,
“Malani has so much experience in the advertising industry and I couldn’t be
more excited to welcome her to her new family at East Coast Radio. I look
forward to seeing how she will elevate the East Coast Radio sales offering to
our current and new advertisers.” Van Huyssteen is
passionate about the broadcasting industry and has big plans for the East Coast
Radio team. “My vision for the sales portfolio is to have a strong,
bonded team of people who are passionate about their station, province and
delivering meaningful results to marketers and businesses. And always, having a
lot of fun along the way.” Business moves GAU TV offers
broadcast for digital and virtual events GAU TV is offering broadcast for
digital/virtual events, webinars and digital programmes. The regional
television station said the outbreak of Covid19 and its fatalities has taught them
that no matter what hurdles may come their way, they were “innovative and
resilient creatures”. ”This is an opportunity for event organisers
to adapt to the new normal with the aid of technology while bringing the event
to live broadcast and knowledge sharing,” GAU TV said. GAU TV,  described as ‘youthful, educating, informing and entertaining’, is a regional commercial channel that broadcasts 24 hours a day broadcasting via DStv channel 265. The coverage area is Gauteng with national footprint. It reaches 16 – 35yr olds as well as adults of 35+. It has a viewership of over three million and reaches the LSM 4-7 market. “We offer clients and stakeholders an opportunity to amplify their messaging through television broadcast,  drive interaction with the end user through television content . We create awareness on what the brand has to offer through stings and special content and align messaging with digital component to increase engagement.” Contact Eugene Mametse. Synergy
Creative launched in Richards Bay What happens when four creatives meet up at a bar? They wake up from a dream! Irrelevant story but got your attention for a second which is exactly what new agency, Synergy Creative is set out to do. Small towns are always a great backdrop for cool
stories, and not to mention big talent. Based in Richards Bay, an industrial town in
Northern KZN, Synergy Creative is ready to tackle creative projects, big or
small. “As a creative team, we decided to launch the agency
during the most uncertain time – a global pandemic, on the premise that
businesses, such as yours will need creative solutions to find your feet again.
Using the human connection to tell a story that unites us all, we’re ready to
create, together,” said PR professional, Tracy Moodley. Services include PR, Multimedia, Design,
Strategy, Digital Marketing and “apparently they also vibe off a really dope
playlist”. hello@synergycreative.co.za or www.synergycreative.co.za Caxton Local Newspapers return to SA homes After a tumultuous couple of weeks, SPARK Media and
Caxton’s Local Media division has been hard at work to ensure that all its
local publications are once again being delivered to South African homes. “Our
local editors, journalists and support staff have been working around the clock
to cover the stories and source relevant Covid-19 information appropriate to
each community,” said SPARK Media’s CEO Gill Randall. “Community
news is known to command high levels of engagement amongst the hundreds of
thousands of different South African population clusters, with new evidence
pointing to the fact that our readers are now paying even higher levels of
attention to printed products, during these disastrous times.” SPARK Media’s commercial printing factories re-opened on 1 May meaning that consumers have already started receiving their pre-printed retail shopping inserts. “We know from our research that these shopping deals play an important part in helping us plan our shopping lists,” said Randall. “There has never been a more important time than now to look for good deals and savings.” Making
moves YouTube and ViacomCBS Networks
Africa team up for Africa Day Benefit Concert At Home YouTube and ViacomCBS
Networks Africa with Idris Elba will be streaming the Africa Day
Benefit Concert At Homeon
the MTV Base Africa YouTube channel on Monday, 25 May at 18:00
CAT and broadcasting across the network’s TV channels in Africa
at 21:00 CAT. The two-hour special
will raise funds to support food and health needs for children and
families in Africa affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, with the World
Food Programme and UNICEF who are supporting COVID-affected
communities across Africa. The humanitarian
concert is gaining support for this important cause from some of the biggest
names on the African continent and beyond, with special messages
from Trevor Noah, reigning Miss Universe Zozibini Tunzi, renowned
American actor Omari Hardwick, American rapper and
actor Ludacris, multiple award winning artist Sean Paul, R&B
singer Anthony Hamilton, UN Goodwill ambassador and actress Nomzamo
Mbatha, multi-talented rapper and actor, Fat Joe and leading actor Winston Duke
joining the lineup of presenters. The show will bring
together a powerful lineup of performances from some of the most talented
artists in Africa with the addition of Afrobeats superstars Davido (Nigeria),
Burna Boy (Nigeria), Bebe Cool (Uganda), Busiswa (South Africa), Adekunle
Gold (Nigeria), C4 Pedro (Angola), Reekado Banks (Nigeria), M.anifest (Ghana),
Niniola (Nigeria), Salif Keita (Mali), DJ Maphorisa & KABZA De Small (South
Africa) and Toofan (Togo). These artists join a confirmed lineup including
Burna Boy, Angelique Kidjo, AKA, Diamond Platnumz, Fally Ipupa, Nasty C, Sauti
Sol, Sho Madjozi, StoneBwoy, Teni, Tiwa Savage and Yemi Alade. “We are proud to have formidable partners and
talent on board as we tackle this unprecedented humanitarian crisis,” said Monde
Twala, Senior Vice President and General Manager for ViacomCBS. “ViacomCBS
Networks Africa is proud to work alongside YouTube to support
the World Food ProgrammeandUNICEF in their efforts.” Sarla And Lemonlicious distribute goodwill The South African Rugby Legends Association (SARLA) and all-natural
refreshment brand, Lemonlicious, have joined forces to help underprivileged
schools, as lockdown slowly begins to ease and learners return to classrooms
around the country. Lemonlicious has donated 2000 cooldrinks to be distributed among
schools involved in SARLA’s VUKA programme, which invests in South African
children through sports development at grassroots level, via its SA Rugby
Union-endorsed competitive league. At present, however, lockdown measures mean that boys and girls who
are part of the VUKA programme are unable to play, and being from
underprivileged areas where much hardship is present, many of them are also
going without food and drink during this difficult time. To help address this widespread issue in some small way, SARLA and
ZEST Beverages (Lemonlicious) will be delivering cooldrinks and fruit parcels to
23 VUKA schools in Kwa Thema and Tsakane in Johannesburg. SARLA Rugby
Coordinator for Gauteng, Jaco Coetzer, and Lemonlicious’s Doug Carmody will be
coordinating the deliveries in line with government lockdown regulations. SARLA CEO, Stefan Terblanche said, “Any difference we are able to make
to our communities at this stage counts. And we are very grateful to Doug and
Trevor from ZEST for their contribution to this goodwill initiative. VUKA Rugby
is all about uplifting communities, and though we are unable to do that through
playing sport at this stage, we can help in other ways.” Natalie Baitz from ZEST Beverages said, “Our vibrant young people are
the soul of this country. In this difficult time, offering them support is the
best we can do. We have to help wherever we can and remind our poorer
communities that they are not alone. We hope we can continue to make a
difference in partnership with SARLA, and encourage all South Africans to help
wherever they can, too.” NASCAR revving its engines again – live on
SuperSport After a hiatus that
lasted for 10 weeks and eight races, the National Association for Stock Car
Auto Racing is back on the live sport calendar – and back on SuperSport. This week’s broadcast
details: Thursday: Darlington
Raceway (SS2 A, SS8, 1:30am). May 25: Coca-Cola 600
(SS1, SS1 A, SS2 A, SS8, 12am). May 28: Charlotte (SS2
A, SS8, 2am). The NASCAR calendar
will continue for another month with races across the US: May 31 – Bristol; June
7 – Atlanta; June 10 – Martinsville; June 14 – Homestead-Miami; June 21 –
Talladega. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.