Home entertainment distribution has exploded in the last few years, to the extent both the big shows and small shows can be hits. And now, with millions living under lockdown, the industry has boomed even more. Whether it’s Downton Abbey, Killing Eve or Masterchef Australia, these days we’re able to happily sit up at night and binge watch the hit TV series streaming into our homes over the internet. Entertainment
on demand is what it’s all about. Millions of people now have a huge choice
over what they want to see any time of the day or night. But that doesn’t mean it’s only the hits. A massive amount of choice allows for smaller shows to be ‘hits’ too. It’s a
phenomenon called “the long tail economy,” identified by Chris Anderson, editor
in chief of Wired magazine, when he wrote a book called ‘The Long Tail’ in
2006. It argued that low-selling products can collectively build a better
market share than their rivals, or exceed the few current bestsellers and
blockbusters, provided the store or distribution channel is large enough. An
example at the time was Amazon. As he
put it: “Up until now, the focus has been on dozens of markets of millions,
instead of millions of markets of dozens”. The digital economy, in terms of online streaming services and the battle over entertainment airwaves, fits in with the theory. In online markets, many niche products tend to outsell fewer hit products. Anderson found in his research that when it comes to the online (OTT) business, an interesting thing was happening: if you combined all the content from the long tail and compared their share of revenue to the top performers, the two were almost equal. Essentially what he discovered was that if an operator could offer a sufficiently large number of niche products to a sufficiently large audience, it could compete with the bestsellers. Nowadays,
since everyone can produce their own content, the tail keeps getting longer.
Millions of videos are, for example, uploaded onto YouTube every day. Further,
in the digital space, content aggregators (distributors) are making access to
niche content easier, which makes the tail fatter. Digital
aggregators/distributors such as YouTube and Netflix, blogs and news sites are
basically unlimited in how many products they can offer, store and sell, resulting
in a longer, fatter tail. Getting
back to television, it is true that Netflix and other subscription video on
demand services (SVOD) don’t own all aspects of distribution, as the television
network owners do, as they deliver content via the broadcast services they own.
The physical layer of distribution via an internet service provider is still
typically owned by the infrastructure companies, the telecom or mobile
operators. However, internet service providers 
certainly won’t block access to SVOD services. The likes of Amazon’s Prime Video and Hulu created the ‘direct to consumer’ disruption, whereby consumers are incentivised to either eliminate or downgrade traditional TV subscriptions. That poses a threat to the highly lucrative pay TV business model, which has sustained the big studio owners. We are seeing this in South Africa, as Netflix and Showmax gain momentum and DStv’s Premium package subscriptions decline (hastened by the pandemic, which decimated the sports broadcasting sector, a prime attraction for DStv Premium subscribers). Netflix
is producing more and more of its own, original content, which is streamed
through online services, direct to consumers. So successful has it been, that
it’s forced the big studios to consolidate their businesses and change their
operating models. Disney,
for example, has bought up ABC, DC Comics, Lucas Films and more recently Fox,
thus owning huge content libraries of both popular and niche fare. It’s also
launched its own OTT service, Disney+, in order to be more resilient to the
Netflix juggernaut. But it’s keeping its legacy traditional channel businesses
operating in parallel. Since the digital age has created
such abundance, what comes shining through, what shows are popping up, what are
the big hits? Some rather interesting dynamics emerged at the recent Golden
Globes and Screen Actors Guild Awards. Netflix
received an unprecedented 34 nominations at the Golden Globe awards, but won
only two, a big ‘shutout’ from Hollywood. However, some of their nominated
shows, like The Two Popes, Marriage Story and Martin Scorsese’s The Irishman,
are still massive hits. While
this year’s record nominations  did not
yield too many wins,  in years to come,
things will shift. Going
forward, it appears that the legacy studios will continue to operate their
current models, while looking for new ways to distribute content in order to
complete with Netflix, Amazon, YouTube, Hulu and Apple TV. Television
will always thrive and survive, consumers will continue to watch epic shows on
big digital LED screens. It’s the traditional production and distribution
models that won’t survive. The big free-to-air networks will still carry studio
produced shows, the news and national sports. Pay TV operators will continue to
carry channels with smaller schedules and more repeats. However,
they will all start losing both audiences and revenues to the non-linear OTT
services that are delivering top notch, compelling content at much cheaper
prices, and at a faster pace. But
apart from the hit shows,  millions of
consumers will watch the abundance of niche content available, content that suits
their individual tastes, interests and needs. These could be cooking shows,
wildlife documentaries, home, garden or lifestyle shows. Anderson’s observation and
comment made in 2006, that “up until now, the focus has been on dozens of
markets of millions, instead of millions of markets of dozens” makes so much
sense now. The big
TV series of 2019 were: Clare O’Neil has been in the media and broadcasting industry in South Africa for over 30 years. O’Neil served on the SABC Board and recently served as CEO of the Broadcast Research Council, which she set up from scratch. She currently consults to an international television network and was joint recipient of the 2019 BELL Award. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.