The pressing need for good reporting during the COVID-19 pandemic has encouraged a growing list of donors to offer grants to journalists. In addition, offers of aid to publishers are also being made
available in light of the increased financial pressures on small businesses. A number of funding deadlines have passed but please see below for
those that are open. The National Research Foundation (NRF) supported by
South Africa’s Department of Science and Innovation (DSI), Canada’s
International Development Research Centre (IDRC), the Fonds de Recherche du
Québec (FRQ), the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida),
the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DFID), United
Kingdom Research and Innovation  (UKRI)
through the Newton Fund, and SGCI participating councils are collaborating in
this initiative, which has been conceptualised under the auspices of the
Science Granting Councils Initiative in Sub-Saharan Africa (SGCI). The Fund aims to support knowledge generation and
translation to inform diagnostics, prevention and treatment of COVID-19,
strengthen African regional and continental science engagement efforts in
response to the pandemic, and leverage existing multilateral collaborations and
attract new collaborations from international partners. The COVID-19 Africa Rapid Fund Grant Fund will support
projects in three areas: 1) research; 2) science engagement – call to science
and health journalists and communicators; and 3)    science engagement – call to science
advisers in response to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Application
link : 
//www.nrf.ac.za/division/funding/covid-19-africa-rapid-grant-fund Grants ranging from $1,000 to $8,000 will be
given “for local coverage of the preparation, response, and impact of this
global pandemic as seen through evidence-based reporting.” The National
Geographic fund “will place particular emphasis on delivering news to underserved
populations”. The fund is interested in “local and even hyper-local
distribution models,” and wants to see stories “of inequities that COVID-19 has
brought to light.” Writers, photographers, videographers, audio
journalists, cartographers, filmmakers, and data visualization experts may
apply for this funding. Employers
need to apply for the coronavirus benefit if they can’t afford to pay their
workers. The maximum amount recipients will get is R6 730 a month. If you have lost your job, you can claim an
unemployment benefit from the UIF – and if your company reduced your working
hours, you can also put in a claim. If your company put you on unpaid leave during this time, or if you have been laid off temporarily – or if a company can only afford to pay a part of your salary – you can get  a special payout from the UIF, as part of the Covid-19 Temporary Relief scheme, also known as the special Temporary Employee/Employer Relief Scheme (TERS). A business has to apply to the UIF to get money to pay workers. It will have to prove that it suffered a severe knock from the lockdown. If approved, the UIF will pay out money per worker for up to three months. The UIF offices are closed, but you can register online. From the home page, click on the ‘Activate my uFiling account’ button and follow the on-screen instructions. You will receive a case number to track your progress. Alternatively, you can email Online.BCP@labour.gov.za for guidance. For the coronavirus benefit, you can’t apply – your employer has to. Businesses need to mail covid19ters@labour.gov.za to register their companies for the payout. The UIF hotline for the coronavirus benefit is 012 337 1997. SANEF will be updating this list regularly. Please notify us at sanef@sanef.org.za if there
are any further funds or funding that you know is available. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.