There’s nothing quite like radio, nothing that connects in quite so intimate a way with audiences, and things are getting better all the time. Roger Waters’ 1987 song, Radio Waves, kicks off with the line, “You and I are listening to K.A.O.S in Los Angeles”. One could sometimes be forgiven
for thinking that applied in South Africa. Radio has always been a
revolutionary medium, fighting for the next big thing and transforming content
and audiences using technology, personality and these days, different
platforms. So, what does the chaos look like
in 2020? Many would say the SABC has been chaotic in the
last few years. It’s run into enormous debt, and battled to attract sufficient
advertising. Its leadership was for many years incompetent, to say the least,
and a joke, to say the worst. There does, however, seem to be a genuine shift
in the way the corporation is being run. Newsrooms have been freed up from
intense political scrutiny, competent executives are being appointed and there
is a drive to recoup the monies wasted. It is an organisation in flux and
transformation, and there are still challenges and legacy issues around
financing, human capital and leadership. I’m hoping that senior management allow their
teams the flexibility to implement creative thinking for the benefit of
audiences and advertisers, and don’t default to their previous, archaic
business models. Across the industry, rate cards are being overthrown with
holistic platform approaches. It’s critical that that the corporation
contribute to industry wide conversations, technical discussions and remains
the largest, single, employer of creative talent. Financial pressure saw Gauteng based Classic FM
go into business rescue. Their turn-around plan with new shareholders will no
doubt see an application to the Independent Communications Authority of South
Africa (Icasa) for an amendment to their niched programming format. My annual question to Icasa regarding the
commercial licences in the Free State and Eastern Cape remains unanswered and
the airwaves remain equally quiet, much like the President in the Chairman’s
Conversation on PowerFM. [President Cyril Ramaphosa withdrew from the annual
PowerFM interview at the last minute in November 2019]. I believe Icasa will have some interesting
decisions to make in the commercial space about shareholding and ownership in
key markets. Icasa has also set itself up for a busy 2020, with the gazetting
of available licences in the community radio space. Community radio remains a pillar of South Africa’s democracy. 2020 will see many stations celebrate 25 years of broadcasting, having been licenced by the Icasa’s predecessor, the Independent Broadcast Authority (IBA) in 1995. The message from the authority is clear, compliance is not optional, it is fundamental. The underlying chaos in the community sector requires skilled leadership and resourceful plans to execute and report according to licensing conditions. I think 2020 will further curtail what some might refer to as revolutionary operators, but who are just operating outside their given licence conditions. It is great to see industry bodies representing
their members and proactively working to strengthen the sector. The National
Community Radio Forum (NCRF) will no doubt continue to fight for the community
sector and lobby government when appropriate. The work done for commercial
players at the National Association of Broadcasters (NAB) with the commissioning
of the Infinite Dial Research into listening habits and trends, released in
September last year, is also a good sign of the potential the industry has when
working together. There can be no doubt that in a time of declining budgets and
changing sales models, a united message is powerful. The word ‘radio” used to refer to the physical box used to receive a
signal for the consumer, much like TV. But radio has transformed. Radio is now
more than a noun, it’s an action word, a verb, and it refers to all things
audio (conceptualising, crafting, creating, consuming and commercialising). Today, digital and on-demand are concepts
helping shape and drive radio as the leader in the audio space. We need only
look to world-wide trends and the growing access to devices to know that we
need to include digital as part of our creative offering. It is however not the
only offering. Radio connects people to content via platforms. I love what East Coast Radio (ECR) in KwaZulu-Natal has done in evolving its brand on FM. But I also love the way it has extended its reach by becoming the first commercial radio station in South Africa to launch a digital music radio station, East Coast Gold, which plays golden oldies from the early ’60s to the ’90s. Each platform has a part to play in the reach that radio has with their audiences. The interesting caveat for me is that personality and music seem to be the key to the success of the offering. They didn’t revolutionise anything, they just understood the what, where and why of how people want to consume radio. The Broadcast Research Council’s Radio Audience
Measurement (RAM) tells us traditional radio listening at home is still strong
and in-car listening is prevalent. The Infinite Dial research points to a
strong mobile community. Hyper-local stations and astute regional broadcasters
understand the relevance of ‘my back yard’ and the power of locality. The
streaming players are looking at this and are investing resources into the
radio space. Can we also agree that recording live radio moments and packaging them is not a podcast? In 2020, to quote another song about radio, let’s make sure that it will fulfil the role Freddy Mercury sang about: “And everything I had to know/I heard it on my radio.” And he closed with: “You’ve yet to have your finest hour”. Prescient, I’d say. This story was first published in The Media Yearbook 2020. Tim Zunckel (@TimZunckel ‏) is a creative programmer, problem solver and lover of audio who is always keen to engage and share thoughts and ideas.  Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.