A collaborative effort between GroupM agencies – Wavemaker, Mediacom and Mindshare – was undertaken to understand the behaviour, attitude, media consumption usage and psyche of teenagers. The research study delivers key insight into this under-researched, but important audience segment. “Teenagers are important to brands because they are early adopters and wield substantial purchasing power. Understanding this market and what makes them tick, can help marketers grow their brands and acquire life-long customers. As we all know, the youth, and in particular teenagers are the trendsetters of tomorrow,” said Delia Van Staden, head of analytics and insights at Wavemaker. In their short but
eventful life, teenagers have grown up surrounded by the digital age, the
consequences of a global recession, new-world terrorism and most recently, the
novel coronavirus. Although greatly dependent on their parents, the external
environment influences teenagers with regards to their media consumption,
purchasing behaviour and attitude towards various brands. This influence
continues well into adulthood. GroupM agencies
conducted an online research study, using their proprietary consumer panel, LIVE
Panel, to unpack the opinions of 8 000+ teenagers (aged 13 – 17 years)
across 18 global markets, of which South Africa was one. The sample size was
split equally between girls and boys, and all the teenagers were recruited and
interviewed under parental guidance using an online questionnaire. The study identified seven personality archetypes. The archetypes were not mutually exclusive thus multiple personas could be found in the average teenager. “Data and insights are part of Wavemaker’s DNA, and these are used to under-pin and inform decisions in media strategy at Wavemaker,” said Van Staden. “Having a rich data set like this, enables us to understand the needs, motivations and driving forces in the South African teenage market – something which the industry and other agencies have been lacking for a long time now.” When a microscope it
taken to the study and zeroed in on the South African market, 535 of the
8 888 participants were from South Africa. While many similarities are
seen across markets, South African Teens are different on a few levels. This data allows marketers and planners alike, to further develop their targeted advertising to suit the up and coming consumer. Teenagers just cannot be grouped under the umbrella stereotypical term of ‘Millennials’. The study shows that the teenage spectrum is of varying degrees and understanding these nuances goes a long way in communicating with impact, something that is needed to stay in tune with tomorrow’s consumer. Teens are the gatekeepers of modern and future trends, thus it is imperative that marketers cater to their needs. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.