The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: Lerato Kganyago is Levi’s Curvy brand ambassador Levi’s South
Africa has announced award winning television and radio personality, Lerato
Kganyago, as the official ambassador for their Curvy range for Summer 2020. “It’s imperative that the perception of weight issues among young black girls and adolescents is changed. The female body has been under scrutiny for too long; what media portrayed as beautiful was therefore beautiful, and this is just not the case as we progress into 2021 we celebrate our diversity and differences in size, shape and colour.” With personal body shaming experience from the
media under her belt, this campaign stands by Kganyago’s curves
and what better way to make the stand than together with Levi’s in support
of their Curvy range being a fit solution for ‘curvy’ women? “We see our Curvy range as catering for
an important need, creating jeans in the way bodies are made and meant to be
and not the other way around. Celebrating the feminine curve and championing
body positivity,” said David Davey, brand manager at Levi’s South Africa. “We need a champion, an ambassador
for these young women to look up to and ultimately their co-sign.” As the Project Runway host, SA Style Awards Most Stylish Media Personality 2019, and now, Levi’s Curvy Ambassador, Kganyago continues in her pursuit to constantly shift the mindsets of African women and their bodies. ‪ People moves Craig
Wallis joins the Ad Outpost team Craig Wallis, a well-known and respected out of home
person, will be joining Ad Outpost to head up the sales division on 1 October. Wallis,
as most people in the industry will know, comes with a wealth of media, and
more specifically out of home experience. CEO of Ad Outpost, Dinesh Diar, commented, “It is
absolutely fantastic to have someone of Craig’s stature, knowledge and
experience join the Ad Outpost team. Craig will play a vital role in helping
reposition Ad Outpost as we navigate our way in the so called ‘post Covid new
normal’ world we all find ourselves in. I have had the pleasure of working with
Craig previously, so I have first-hand experience of the quality he will bring
to Ad Outpost”. Storm Ackermann, who headed up the sales division,
is leaving for personal reasons, echoed Diar’s sentiments, and added, ”Craig
comes to Ad Outpost at an exciting time, despite all the economic challenges,
he inherits a solid and focused team, that are known for punching above their
weight. With Craig’s experience, he is the perfect mentor and enabler to help
take them to even greater heights, I am delighted for him and the entire Ad
Outpost team”. Black Crown launches Heritage Month collaboration
with designer Palesa Mokubung South
Africa’s latest ready-to-drink gin and tonic brand, Black Crown G&T, has
partnered with designer Palesa Mokubong as part of their Heritage campaign
called #OwnYourCrown. The
campaign is in celebration of the country’s rich and diverse heritage and will
see the designer work with kings and queens from mixed heritage households to
document their stories and capture their heritage through the lens of fashion. The
campaign is true to the Black Crown G&T ethos of celebrating South African
creatives who are pushing boundaries both on the local and international arena.
The brand which launched in the country in February this year is the latest
addition to the ABinBev portfolio of brands, produced locally on the back of the
gin category growth in the local market. Business moves EF-Active partners
with power couple, JP & Sue Duminy for ‘Protecting Our Family’ outdoor
campaign It’s been a mere sixth months since EF-Active
entered the highly competitive FMCG market, and today, the product line is
available and racked in major retailers, fast building loyalty thanks to its
commitment to quality, affordability, and, most importantly, keeping users
effectively sanitised and safe. With EF-Active’s drive to amplify its reach and
positive impact on society, the brand is proud to announce a partnership with
Jean-Paul (JP) and Sue Duminy, the much-loved and respected celebrity couple
who in their way have added extraordinary value to society. JP as a former
international cricketer and his wife, Sue, as a passionate influencer,
entrepreneur, and mother to their two beautiful children. With shared and respected values, the power duo,
along with their two daughters will grace EF-Active’s new outdoor media
billboard campaign, under the banner of ‘Protecting Our Family’. “EF-Active
has become part of our daily routine and we are delighted to be associated with
such a high quality brand,” add JP & Sue Duminy. From October, across the country, commuters will
get to experience the campaign and most excitingly be able to play an active
role in sharing the critical messaging that includes encouraging consumers to
take precautions and to act responsibly, every single day, during these
collectively compromising times. InSites Consulting rebrands its UK-based acquisition, Join the Dots Following the acquisition of UK-based Join the Dots by
InSites Consulting in July 2019, the global consumer insight agency has now “Our rebrand to InSites Consulting is an exciting step
for our people and great news for our clients. We will continue to offer local,
personalised servicing, whilst benefiting from global reach and scale. Our
community positioning remains strong, powered by our proprietary insight
management platform, and our research toolkit is now the most versatile on the
global market so that we can connect even more dots than before! “Our goal for InSites Consulting UK is to bring people
and platforms together. We can now do this more efficiently thanks to our
global consumer networks, which include mainstream consumers, leading-edge Illume
guides and eÿeka creatives,”said Andy Cumming, managing director
at InSites Consulting UK. The rebrand of Join the Dots in the UK follows the
trend of previous acquisitions; Columinate in South Africa and Direction First
in Australia. Castle Lager celebrates its homegrown
heritage with a brand-new look In
2020, Mzansi’s most beloved beer brand, Castle Lager turns 125 years old and
continues its iconic legacy as an integral part the nation’s heritage and
culture. To
memorialise this auspicious occasion, the brand has revealed that it has
reimagined its look and feel and has made a number of significant changes which
will become Castle Lager’s key feature in telling a 125-year-old tale of
resilience and home-grown fervour. “We’re
all about welcoming new friends and bringing South Africans together. No matter
who you are, we want you to celebrate with us and raise the new look Castle as
a toast not only to our birthday, but also to yourselves for making Castle the
brand that it is today…and for having overcome a tough year,” said Castle Lager
brand director, Kudzi Mathabire. Castle
Lager is upgrading its current packaging, which has been around since 2007, to
a modern design applied to a rich heritage and emphasises on the brand’s 100%
homegrown credentials. Consumers can now purchase the new packaging which has
subtle, yet powerful changes, made to retain Castle Lager’s heritage, while
bringing the brand’s image into a modern age. Halls breathes new life into the brand Halls is set to breathe new life into the global brand with a dynamic
marketing campaign that repositions Halls from a lozenge to a lifestyle candy
with purpose.While
Halls has achieved unparalleled success to date as a soothing lozenge for
winter coughs, trusted for its product efficacy, the Halls candy is able to
offer so much more.  The
brand is bringing that to the world as a catalyst to establishing a stronger
relationship with its consumers. Category brand manager, Zainab Mohamed, explained: “For Halls the simple truth is that when you breathe better, you feel better, and mental acuity follows.  The powerful cooling sensation of mentho-lyptus opens your airways from your mouth to your head, so you can breathe deeply and therefore feel recharged, recentred and refocussed to seize the moment, at any moment.” The multi-media campaign will see both the brand’s identity and equity reimagined in line with its repositioning as the lifestyle candy with purpose, through refreshed packaging, a global TV campaign, and digital media events alongside a defined advocacy strategy. The campaign tagline of Get Ready with a Halls Cooling Breath has been localised with #UngapheliUmoya, both embodying Hall’s unique ability to instantly reinvigorate the body, mind and soul. SABC2
introduces a new reality show Model SABC2 has introduced a new reality show, Model, a 10 part series that delves into the world of the fashion industry.  The show features talented models and wild cards from the auditions across South Africa in this year’s competition, as they hope to cement their place in the model mansion. Model will be broadcast every Friday at 7pm, starting on the 2 October 2020. Every week presenter Christia Visser will
be joined by the judging panel consisting of former Mrs. South Africa 2nd
princess and industry professional Kholofelo Mabusela, international model
Pieter Black and the late international fashion designer, Coenraad de Mol. The show gives models the opportunity to
work with South Africa’s best fashion photographers and international fashion
designers.  But, will they have what it takes to endure the vigorous
challenges thrown at them by Visser? Emotions run high and models crack under
pressure as the challenges test them mentally and physically.  Alliances
are formed; Friendships are made and broken, and one by one, models are
eliminated from the house. Making
moves Comedians and celebrities salute Trevor
Noah as The Daily Show celebrates 5 years South Africa’s most
well-known comedian and global export, Trevor Noah, is celebrating five years
at the helm of Comedy Central’s flagship show The Daily Show and the
country’s most popular comedians and celebrities are
showering him with all the praise. Tune in to Comedy
Central (DStv Channel 122) as we celebrate this iconic milestone on The Daily
Social Distancing Show with Trevor Noah weekdays (Tuesday to Friday) at
22:30 CAT. Some of South Africa’s
most loved stars came together to share their favourite Noah moments. Comedian
Schalk Bezuidenhout wished Trevor a happy 5th year anniversary and shared fond
memories of opening the comedian’s last South African theatre run in 2015.
Actress and powerhouse comedian Tumi Morake, who is also based in the US, gave
Trevor a major shoutout sharing a funny anecdote of her favourite Trevor Noah
moment. Radio legend and host
of the Drive Time show on 94.7, DJ Fresh, congratulated Trevor on the
5-year milestone. “The Big Dawg” confessed that ever since Trevor
Noah took over The Daily Show from Jon Stewart, he has not missed a single
season. For the Diary Aggrey Klaaste Annual Colloquium ‘Surviving 2020 and Media Credibility Going Forward…’ On 19 October
2020, Media Freedom Day, the Aggrey Klaaste Trust (AKT), in partnership with Sowetan,
the University of the Witwatersrand, the South African National Editors’ Forum
(SANEF) and DM5 Attorneys, will host a virtual Aggrey Klaaste Annual
Colloquium. The aim is to
commemorate the events that took place on 19 October 1977, the infamous Black
Wednesday. The Aggrey
Klaaste Annual Colloquium aims to celebrate the courageous spirit of all those
journalists and activists who spoke against apartheid and helped nurture a
people’s desire for freedom. In addition to reflecting on Black Wednesday
and its aftermath, the colloquium seeks to address pressing issues facing the
media in contemporary South Africa. The colloquium will be hosted virtually by the University of the Witwatersrand on Zoom. The event will be streamed live on the Wits Journalism and SANEF website: www.journalism.co.za and www.sanef.org.za and on the following social media platforms of the colloquium partners: Facebook – @aggreyklaastetrust; @jocoza; @saeditorsforum; @sowetanlive and on the following YouTube channels: SowetanLIVE; Wits University OFFICIAL and SANEF. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.