Reality TV is a portmanteau genre encompassing game, prank, cooking, makeover/transformational, transactional and celebrity lifestyle shows. It’s also a genre that’s evolving in fascinating ways. Defining the reality TV genre may be tricky, but it certainly draws audiences. The futurefact 2019 survey showed almost four out of 10 adult viewers considered reality shows their favourite type of programme, placing them behind South African soaps and music programmes. Closer inspection reveals that the demographic profile of the reality-show enthusiast is skewed towards the upper middle class/upper class, SEM 7-10, female and under 35. Acting SABC spokesperson, Mmoni Seapolelo, points out that the lower SEMs prefer fiction as a way of escaping. Mediology media director, Michael
Pearce, believes the sub-genres “all have their place with their audiences.
Where some people will relate, others will not, and some reality-TV shows will
appeal to the masses…” According to futurefact 2019, the most popular shows among enthusiasts are those that
do the following. Reality
fans are not driven by voyeurism and malice; rather they are motivated by the
desire to learn about the world and other people. Seapolelo describes SABC’s
approach to the genre as tempering it with ethical considerations; thus,
reality formats can be used to fulfil the broadcaster’s “informal knowledge
building” quota. Examples
of successful popular reality docu-formats are SABC 1’s Khumbul’ekhaya, Nyan’Nyan
and It Takes a Village, as well as SABC 3’s The Longest Date and
Miles Apart, Miles Together. Legend
Manqele, founder of The BarLeader, believes that universal feelings and
experiences drive reality viewership. A marriage proposal resonates
universally; the format simply frames it enticingly, “with cocktails, on a
beach in the Maldives”. The genre can be educative: Living the Dream with
Somizi helped viewers realise that the members of LGBTQ+ community “breathe
the same oxygen and have the same dreams”. Of Life
With Kelly Khumalo, he explains that society tends to shun black widows, so
the show addresses how a person innocently falling in love can make bad choices
and seeks to evoke empathy rather than judgement. The Broadcast Research Council of South
Africa’s TAMS data (1 Jan – 31 July 2020), averaged by programme, show the top
five free-to-air, all-adult reality series to be: Nyan’Nyan, Mi Kasi Su Kasi, Emasisweni,
Instapreneurs
and Spartan: Ultimate Team Challenge. SEM cluster 5, however, shows a taste for
international shows: Survivor:
Game Changers; Welcome to Sweetie Pie’s; Survivor: Millennials vs.
Gen X and America’s Got Talent. In
the adult pay TV universe, local shows predominate: Uyajola 9/9, Somizi & Mohale: The Union, uThando
Nes’thembu, Mnakwethu and Marry Me Now SA. SEM cluster 5
prefers My Kitchen Rules Australia, The Bachelor South Africa, Extreme
Makeover Home Edition, and The Real Housewives of Johannesburg.
Recent Netflix reality hits are Too Hot to Handle, Love is Blind, Rhythm
+ Flow and The Circle. According
to futurefact, reality fans love to shop, believe the right brands create the right
impression, and are eager to try new brands that they see or hear advertised. In short, they sound like an
advertiser’s dream audience. However, Telmar’s Q1 2020 Transmit post campaign
reveals that the genre only attracted 6.2% of ad investment, lagging behind
drama (27.9%), sport (11.5%), movies (11%), news (8.1%) and music (6.8%). One
explanation is that many of the shows run outside the 19h00-21h00 time band. Sune Beyers, Mindshare
managing director, says “If the content does not seem to push any ethical or
moral values and the viewership is there,” then advertisers will support the
genre. Isla Prentis, intelligence lead at
Tirisano Consulting, confirms that “generic TV advertising is predominantly
about reaching the audience”, while Jodie Bailey-Norris, senior integrated
marketing communications manager, Coca-Cola, Southern and East Africa, explains
that their “media team looks for a balance between TRPs and affinity for the
specific audience…and buys spots that reach the right audiences at the right
time”. The top brands supporting the genre are
Clicks, Outsurance (Personal), ClearScore, Debonairs Pizza and Sensodyne. For Fahmeeda Cassim Surtee, CEO of DStv Media Sales, reality shows remain important both for revenue and for driving live linear viewership. The recently launched Big Brother Naija sold out all above-the-line and below-the-line opportunities. eMedia Group’s Mokgadi Whitehead cites The Ultimate Braai Master and Family Feud as examples where the sponsors extended “their campaigns beyond the 30-second classical commercials, through opportunities such as product placement and integration into the programme and, at times, on-the-ground activations”. MediaCom
MD, Claudelle Naidoo, argues the genre has “become a lot more lucrative and
creative as an advertising platform” but tempers this by pointing out the
responsibility “for ensuring that the opportunities we present to client meet
all the necessary requirements from a brand safety point of view”. Celia
Collins, director of Amplifi, observes a generational divide in the attitude
towards brand-safety concerns, with younger clients and strategists tending
more towards the cutting edge. “If
you get involved early enough, product placement…can be seamlessly interwoven
into the drama unfolding on screen,” says Merissa Himraj, chief strategy
officer at Wavemaker South Africa, cautioning that she has yet to “see any
brand get it spot on”. Consumers
expect authenticity from brands, believes Prentis, so it is key to make sure
that the show aligns with the brand. Pearce advises that, “advertisers should
only be keen if the reality show consists of similar brand values and is able
to build relevant connections between the show and the products. Relevance is
key!”. Urban
Brew Studios genre producer, Beverly Moubane, puts it simply: “Giving the
advertiser what speaks to their brand at a logical cost with added value and a
guarantee ROI determines their involvement.” Her colleague Colleen Smith
cautions that South African companies tend not to be aware of production costs
and the terms and conditions of product placement. Prentis concurs that “poor
costing models and long lead times” often hinder marketer involvement. “It’s not product placement, but rather
sentiment association that really works,” argues Katharine Liese, group
head of media and channel integration at Telesure Investment Holdings. She
explains, “Sun’Ceda is a reality show similar to Extreme Makeover
and for 1Life, it aligns to what the brand is about: changing lives.” Media director at Meta Media Cape Town,
Quanita Salie, says Capitec’s The Next Brand Ambassador resonated with
viewers because the three winners scored “real, live jobs” in the client’s
marketing team. She salutes Capitec undertaking the project: it takes time and
commitment to produce a successful reality show that meets business, brand and
viewer objectives. She adds that it is critical to work with producers who are
experienced in the genre, and that clients must be open to learning and
adjusting on the fly. Manqele jokes that the shows can be “walking
shopping centres”, but more seriously he points out that they can extend or
introduce trends. He refers to Being Bonang, in which Matheba launched
not only a T-shirt range but also her own luxury beverage brand. He also acknowledges Samsung’s
role in facilitating the production of Dinner at Somizi’s. Covid-19
brought the entire film and TV industry to a halt. As restrictions were eased,
stricter health and safety measures had to be implemented. Manqele’s intimate
approach to working with celebrities meant that they “never had 1 000 crew
members involved”, but they still had to adjust to shooting Life with Kelly
Khumalo on one location. Liese
suggests the pandemic “has birthed some different kinds of reality show”, for
example Kyknet’s Kwarantyn. She notes that MasterChef Australia
adapted their format mid-season, changing to individual challenges and socially
distancing contestants. Despite the challenges, media agencies are buoyant about the future of the genre. Naidoo is certain it will continue to grow within mainstream programming, and that advertisers will seek more diverse and segmented advertising opportunities within it. Himraj suggests that the genre might become interactive, with viewers engaging in “choose your own adventure” scenarios. Pearce sees it “expanding because of other channels – YouTube, Facebook Live, Instagram Stories, etc…These allow the reality shows to expand into sub-stories and behind-the-scenes stories, and extend the entertainment value beyond just the screen”. Adelaide
Joshua-Hill, head of content and platforms at Urban Brew studios, says, “The
genre is very exciting. It has the ability to morph and adapt to changes in
technology… the interaction between first and second screen will play a big
role in how the genre evolves in the future.” Robert Kaden, junior commissioning editor for
Media24’s VIA TV, says, “Content
must inevitably adapt to the platform on which it lives, be that TikTok, a news
site, a streaming service or linear TV. We’ll increasingly see various genre
conventions getting nudged into new directions.” Given Manqele’s belief that the genre can open viewers’ eyes and hearts to the predicaments of their fellows, it is not surprising that he speculates that reality shows could present the stories of street children or prostitutes. Ultimately, he sees the genre as having the potential for healing and bringing the nation together. Having spent some decades working in the media agencies, Britta Reid now relishes the opportunity to take an independent perspective on the South African media world, especially during this time of radical research transformation. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.