The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s
BIG move: Magistrates’
Commission sets guidelines for media access to courts After months of campaigning for media access to the
magistrates’ courts, the South African National Editors’ Forum (SANEF) has reported
that the Magistrates’ Commission has set national guidelines regarding media
access to court proceedings. They also describe procedures for applications for
permission to photograph, film or record court proceedings, primarily, high
profile cases. The guidelines are meant to assist magistrates
around the country strike a balance between the media’s right to report,
broadcast and publish court proceedings and the right to a fair trial. There
have been certain conflicts between the right to freedom of expression and the
open justice principle, on the one hand, and the right to a fair trial, as well
other competing constitutional rights such as the privacy of the witnesses and
other interested or affected parties, on the other hand. “SANEF believes that these guidelines reinforce
freedom of the press as well as the country’s democracy that recognises the
fact that court must be open and accessible to the public unless there is good
reason not to. These rights are enshrined in the Constitution. The Constitution
endorses freedom of expression, including the freedom of the press and other
media and the freedom to receive or impart information,” the journalism body
said in a statement. The guidelines are clear that all representatives
of the media “shall have the right to attend any court proceedings to
report on such proceedings”. They also state that reporting should not in
any way interfere with proceedings and it should be balanced and fair. The guidelines now stipulate that courts “ought not to restrict the nature and scope of the coverage, broadcasting and publication unless prejudice is demonstrable”. It says that mere conjecture or speculation that prejudice might occur is not to be enough”. Click here to access the Guidelines. Click here to access the Notice of Application for Media Access to Courts People moves Springbok captain Siya Kolisi announces new five-year
partnership with lifestyle brand, Freedom Of Movement Lifestyle brand
Freedom Of Movement (FOM) and Siya Kolisi have announced a new
five-year partnership, a deal negotiated via Roc Nation Sports. The extension follows
the successful socially driven product collaboration ‘FOMxKolisi’, where
proceeds were donated to the development of the Mbekweni sports field located
in the Western Cape. The new deal positions Kolisi as a partner,
allowing for involvement and input across all areas of the business, including
creative design, product development and social initiatives. The partnership
aims to develop and design authentic product ranges dedicated to various
upliftment and awareness projects and promises to make a meaningful positive
impact in South Africa. “The journey that FOM and I have embarked on has
already made such significant change and I’m looking forward to seeing what more
we can achieve together and the impact we can make on lives around South
Africa, as well as delivering the highest quality product” said Kolisi. FOM, co-founded in 2013 by the Boezaart brothers, is
focused on producing quality handcrafted leather products and accessories. Business moves SA Rugby delighted to announce the extension of
the FNB sponsorship SA Rugby and FNB confirmed on Tuesday that the
South African banking giant has extended its sponsorship of the Springboks for
a further five years. The new agreement will stretch FNB’s association
with the team to eight years in total, with the bank’s iconic acacia tree logo
to continue to feature on the jersey above the playing number. Renewal
discussions began before last year’s Rugby World Cup and were concluded before
the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic. Faye Mfikwe, FNB chief marketing officer, said:
“We are honoured to continue our association with the Springboks. FNB is
immensely proud of the team’s achievements and commitment to unifying the country
to foster social cohesion…The Springboks not only inspire South Africans to
have ‘hope’ but also strive to building a stronger nation. We are looking
forward to continuing a winning journey with the team.” CWDi appointed Vodacom Western Cape’s
new activations agency CWDi has announced Vodacom Western Cape
has chosen the company as its activations agency. The move sees CWDi
responsible for the creative and execution of a range of Vodacom activations. “It is a great honour to add another iconic South
African brand to our stable of clients. We look forward to working with the
Vodacom Western Cape and delivering on their marketing strategy,” said Craig
Naicker, Group MD of CWDi. Pippa Hudson, creative director at CWDi, said,
“Our creative team is excited to get working on the brand, to create impactful
and memorable activations that wow customers and to meet our clients’
objectives”. SA Homeschooling magazine and CNA announce collaboration SA Homeschooling – independently published by Isikhova Media – and CNA
are collaborating, with CNA officially endorsing the publication as its
preferred homeschooling media partner. “Our
vision for CNA is to become the destination for all things educational for households
from all walks of life,” said Benjamin Trisk, CEO of CNA. An integral part of the collaboration will be the distribution of SA
Homeschooling magazine to CNA’s online community database. “It will embrace brand
marketing and projects via online and digital platforms, as well as exclusive
in-store and POS initiatives and promotions, and synergetic use of available
mutual resources,” said Jason Aarons, publishing director, Isikhova Media. SA Homeschooling launches end-November and will be published
alternate-monthly. The Outdoor Measurement Council (OMC) releases
latest ROAD data The Outdoor Measurement Council (OMC) has announced the release of the fourth data set of its ROAD audience data, which will take place virtually on 20 October. ROAD is one of the largest sets of research in the market boasting a rolling sample of a massive 45 000 respondents. Entitled ‘Navigating the Future’, the launch features international guest speaker, Kym Frank, President of GEOpath, the out of home measurement, joint industry council equivalent from the US. Lauren Shapiro, managing partner of Kuper Research; Lélanie Butler, acting sales and marketing at JCDecaux and an OMC board member and Trish Guilford, OMC’s general manager complete the line-up. “Lauren will be presenting our new data and
highlighting the changes and other interesting information found in our new
data as our technical overseer,” said Guilford, “while Lélanie will be
presenting an update on South Africa’s DOOH (digital OOH) measurement
processes.” To register for the webinar simply click here. A new broadcast platform to reboot travel and tourism throughout South Africa and Africa A new partnership between Red Carpet Creative and international
broadcast partner, Travel Africa Network, is setting out to reshape the media
landscape, leveraging a global audience to reboot the travel and tourism
industry throughout SA and Africa. This collaboration
between Red Carpet CREATIVE (RCC) – a PR, marketing and production agency for
the luxury travel and hospitality sector, and Maggie Mutangiri, the founder and
director of Travel Africa Network, was initiated earlier in 2020. The innovative
collab offers a 360-degree inter-continental marketing approach, with real-time
audience interactivity. Geared towards local and international travel
audiences, the broadcast business model with editorial-digi-commerce
integration aims to reboot brands with a stronger bounce-back and global
footprint. Their goal being to drive the rise in sustainable tourism, wildlife
conservation, and economic SME stabilisation. The March 2021 launch of the Travel Africa global broadcast TV channel will deliver content to 135+ million homes and hotels across Europe, Middle East, and North Africa; covering everything from African culture, to gastronomy, the best places to travel and stay, and destination documentaries. A subsequent partnership has been forged with DStv’s Spice TV, covering broadcast throughout South Africa and Africa with an additional 14 million daily viewers. Radio Helderberg is celebrating our 25th Birthday and, as a community radio station, it is supporting the local economy. “We are offering every new client that signs up during October  ((three-month campaign) we give the 4th month free. That gives us time to give back in December with a free campaign that u chose from our Birthday Campaign,” the station said in a press release. Radio Helderberg’s footprint includes Somerset West, Strand, Gordon’s Bay, Sir Lowry’s Pass, Nomzamo, Lwandle, Eerste River and Macassar. Other broadcast areas are Grabouw, Villiersdorp, Caledon, Hermanus, Gansbaai and Stellenbosch as well as selected areas of Cape Town including the northern and southern suburbs, and the West Coast. “We invite local business to contact us for an affordable marketing solution to meet your specific advertising requirements.” Mobile: 082 4336103 and email: lorna@radiohelderberg.co.za IMC Chamber of Commerce and Industry and Africa
Business News (CNBC) launch Indo-Africa Virtual Summit 2020 The IMC and ABN recently concluded an MOU to host
the first virtual India-Africa Summit 2020. The summit is aimed at looking at
bilateral economic and business opportunities between the countries in Sub
Sahara Africa and India. The event scheduled from 4th to 6th November 2020, is
being planned at a time when all economies are reeling from the impact of
Covid-19 and need to learn from each other and recalibrate partnerships for
mutual benefit through a rapidly evolving world. “India has been a historic strategic partner to all
African economies and given the impediments caused by the pandemic we felt that
our media platforms could provide a platform for much needed dialogue on
sharing experiences and evaluating future opportunities. Consequently, the
partnership with the IMC could not have come at a better time as governments
and businesses need to work closer together to build mutual inter-dependence”
said Roberta Naicker, group managing director, ABN Group. “The summit will be
simultaneously broadcast live on CNBC Africa to 26 million households across
Sub Sahara Africa.” The Mapungubwe Institute for Strategic Reflection and
the SABC enter into a research content partnership The South
African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) has inked a research content partnership with the Mapungubwe Institute for Strategic Reflection (MISTRA). MISTRA is an independent
non-profit think tank based in Johannesburg, whose primary focus is strategic
and transdisciplinary research at country, continental and global levels. Commenting on this new development, the SABC’s group chief executive, Madoda Mxakwe, said, “Research is indispensable to delivering superior programming and exceptional execution of the public mandate. It is critical to ensuring that citizens have access to high-quality content and programmes that are relevant and of greater utility.” MISTRA’s director of operations, Dr Oscar van Heerden said, “After 10 years of producing research straddling the country’s complex challenges, such as issues of nation-formation, economic growth, social equity and South Africa’s global positioning, the Institute is proud to share this knowledge with the rest of the country. SABC 2
acquires rights to American Soul SABC2 has acquired the rights to
broadcast an International drama series American Soul on Saturdays at 20:30,
starting on 17 October. Inspired by the trials and successes of a young, ambitious, and troubled impresario Don Cornelius, the series takes an unflinching look at the entrepreneur, his Soul Train dancers, the crew, and musicians in an unforgiving Hollywood in the 1970s. American singer Kelly Rowland makes a recurring appearance in the series as Gladys Knight. Making
moves IoDSA and IWFSA announce partnership to develop
next generation of ethical and effective women leaders The Institute of Directors in South Africa
(IoDSA) and the International Women’s Forum South Africa (IWFSA) have announced
a long-term partnership aimed at developing the next generation of ethical and
effective women leadership. “The IoDSA has been a strong advocate for greater
gender diversity on boards for many years, not least because genuinely diverse
organisations perform better and are more profitable. However, sitting on a
board in today’s complex socio-economic environment is challenging and
directors must have the right skills, hence our drive to professionalise
directorship,” said Parmi Natesan, CEO, IoDSA. The new partnership’s first project is a custom
programme for IWFSA’s Young Leaders Connect initiative, the IDEAL Board
Leadership Programme. IDEAL stands for Identify, Develop, Empower, Accelerate
and Leadership, encapsulating the aims of the Young Leaders Connect initiative. “We are very excited to have entered into this
partnership with the IoDSA, which is aimed at the long-term development of a
new generation of ethical women leaders,” said president of IWFSA, Irene
Charnley. Sovereign’s
quirky ‘Be a worry boob’ campaign raises funds for PinkDrive With Covid-19 taking centre stage this year,
Boomtown had to think of a truly engaging breast cancer awareness campaign for
South African poultry producer, Sovereign, that would successfully remind women
that checking their breasts is a top priority The annual Sovereign breast cancer awareness
campaign not only raises general awareness but also funds for the non-profit,
public benefit organisation PinkDrive. Now in its third year, Sovereign donates R1 for
every 1kg of Country Range chicken breasts purchased by consumers at Spars
throughout the Eastern Cape and Food Lover’s Markets in Gauteng to the
PinkDrive. “With COVID-19 being the main health concern and
point of focus this year, women are not visiting their GPs or clinics, and are
not going for their regular health check-ups, leaving their health at the
wayside. ‘Be a Worry Boob’ brings women’s health back into focus, reminding
women what’s still important: checking their breasts for signs of breast
cancer,” said Boomtown’s digital oopywriter, Liesl Silverman. The campaign was rolled out on digital platforms
and in-store using tactically placed wobblers in food aisles, eye-catching
on-pack stickers, and t-shirt stickers for customers to show their support for
breast cancer awareness. An illustrated breast check tutorial, fun Facebook
frame and competition were rolled out on Sovereign’s social media platforms. Watch the ‘How to do a breast check’ video
here:  How to do a breast check self-exam video Small business
owners can win a Toyota Hilux on KFM Kfm 94.5, the
biggest radio station in the Western Cape, is taking local business support to
the next level. KFM has partnered with Kenings Car, Van and Truck Hire for
Bizboost, the popular small business support feature on The Flash Drive with
Carl Wastie. The Bizboost
feature sees Wastie talking to a small business owner daily. The impact on SMMEs
during lockdown has been severe – a fact the station and The Flash Drive team
is very aware of. “I wanted to do more for these business owners who are struggling to keep afloat and support their families. So, I made a couple of calls to companies to hear if they can help,” said Wastie. “I was blown away when Kenings gifted a Toyota Hilux from their fleet to a small business who needs it. That’s the power of community and the power of radio.” Small business
owners who share their details online on kfm.co.za stand the chance of being
interviewed on the Flash Drive to talk about their business. Every business
featured will be in line to win the Toyota Hilux, valued at R220 000, from
Kenings Car, Van and Truck Hire. In addition, the winning business will also
receive a marketing and social media marketing package courtesy of The Fox In
The Box Group. Listen to Bizboost daily from 16:45 on Kfm 94.5. October is
Mental Health Awareness month at Mix 93.8 FM Mix 93.8 FM stands fiercely behind taking action
and looking after your mental health. According to the Same Foundation, 23
South Africans commits suicide every day. Don’t be ashamed, speak out. This month the station is looking at a variation of
different scenarios in the support of mental health: ‘Sexual harassment and
bullying in the workplace & mental health’, ‘gender-based violence in
relationships & mental health’, ‘nutrition, exercise & mental health’
and ‘chronic illness & mental health.’ Mix 93.8 FM has also launched their Mix 93.8 FM App
– now available to listeners for download from the Apple App Store or Google
Play Store for an optimal streaming experience. France 24 in English: new programme schedule
Starting on October 26 2020 Starting  26
October, France 24 in Englishwill
offer viewers a revamped programme schedule. The shows will be organised
according to themes in new daily timeslots: ‘World views’, ‘Focus and
Sports’, ‘France by France 24’
and ‘Encore: culture daily’. The rest of the day will remain punctuated by three
live broadcast segments, ‘Live from Paris’ (6 am – 10 am, 1 pm – 3 pm and 6 pm
– midnight), which bring viewers a comprehensive overview of international news,
news bulletins every 30 minutes as well as reports, interviews, business
related news and shows to debunk fake news. France 24 is becoming increasingly relevant amongst
the English-Language international news channels. This new grid will make its
offer clearer and will better respond to the needs of its growing audience
around the globe. SA web
users can take action against cyber fraud Statistics South Africa says almost two-thirds of
South African households now have at least one person who accesses the
Internet. Add this to the fact that October marks
Cybersecurity Awareness Month in many countries, including SA, and it’s clear
web users are ready for anti-fraud advice. That’s according to ZA Central Registry NPC
(ZACR), which says that there are many ways whereby Internet users can help to
prevent domain name fraud in South Africa. “SA web users are not powerless in the face of
local and foreign fraudsters who prefer to direct the awesome potential of the
web towards nefarious purposes,” said Lucky Masilela, CEO of ZACR. ZACR said attempts at online fraud often take the
form of a fake banking website, an email pretending to come from a government
department with a valuable tender opportunity, or simply a message from a
“relative” who has died and left a fortune. For the Diary Business Day SME Matters in partnership with PayFast: 21 October 2020|13h00 Building out an ecommerce offering for any
business to capitalise on the Black Friday growing trend. If you ever thought that e-commerce was just for
some, think again. COVID-19 hasn’t just reshaped retailing, it has opened up
e-commerce across all industries from manufacturing to professional services,
gardening to farming, and almost everything else! And the biggest spending events on the plant
offering a spike in revenues that can make up for the damage covid-19 caused to
your sales for the last 6 months is coming up. Black Friday and Cyber Monday are no longer the
exclusive domain of TV’s, vacuum cleaners, clothing and a night’s stay at a
hotel. Growth-minded businesses across all industries
are capitalizing on these events and so should you too! Join business growth expert, Pavlo Phitidis as he
speaks to a panel of business owners on how to enable a digital offering,
include service offering and how ordinary businesses can capitalise on Black
Friday trends. Register here. WNMN partners on Google’s 5-part Digital Growth
Program webinar series World Newsmedia Network is partnering
with Google News Initiative’s Digital Growth Programme, a series of
webinars that help small and medium sized publishers from around the world
succeed online. The series began this week, and carries on until the end of
2021. We’ll first take a deep dive into reader revenue during 2020, including
subscription and membership strategies and best practices. Workshops and expert
panels will take place between now and December 2020. Register here. A complement to the series is Google’s Reader
Revenue Playbook, which provides a comprehensive look at a variety of key
topics, and can be found here. The topics for 2021 include Audience Development, Advertising
Revenue, Data and Product. This year’s webinars are designed to build and strengthen publishers’ reader revenue model with a series of best practices and lessons from publishers around the world. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.