It is international customer service week right now [5-9 October]. A South African journalist recounts an unfortunate tale of extremely bad customer service. And suggests ways of fixing the mess. One of the most fundamental principles of marketing is that it costs far more to acquire a new customer than it does to keep an existing one. Unfortunately, based on my recent experience with Webfrica, I’m starting to wonder whether some companies want to acquire new customers at all. It all
started when I decided to sign up for fibre at home. I’ve been self-employed
for over five years and have so far been able to rely on standard internet
access by using my phone as a wireless hotspot. But even though this has given me
the added benefit of being able to connect from wherever I am, Cell C’s
increasingly unreliable service has made it impossible to stream all the Zoom
calls, webinars, and other miscellaneous whatnots that seem standard these
days. So I signed
up with Webfrica, happy in the knowledge that it would take a week to get
everything set up. Alas, one week turned into over one month of waiting. What
went wrong? Let’s recap the customer service mistakes Webafrica made as a
cautionary tale for what brands should do if they want to drive new (and old)
business away. Nobody
likes filling out online forms, especially when they include increasingly
difficult captchas that sometimes make you question whether you’re human after
all. Fortunately, there was none of that with Webafrica. Instead, the sign up
process was quick and easy. So you can imagine my surprise when, two weeks
later, I still hadn’t heard back about the progress. I emailed
them to find out what the problem was and got a reply to say that they were “struggling
to locate my address”. This was strange because I’d specified it in the
application form. In any case, what they now needed was for me to send them a
municipal account or other documentation to tell them where I lived. Here’s an
idea: why not ask for all this information upfront? For example, the online
form could say: “Sometimes it’s hard for us to figure out exactly where you
live. To speed up your application, please upload proof of address just in case
we need it. We promise not to stalk you.” That would have saved us both the
hassle. Key lesson: Make
things as simple as possible for your customers and clients. Even if it means
adapting your systems upfront, the time you save in the long term makes it
worthwhile. Once they’d
confirmed my location, they passed the installation request to Openserve to
complete the connection. Unfortunately, that turned out to be a mess that
involved several missed (and consequently rescheduled) appointments, as well as
them being “out of stock” in terms of the required cabling. The
technician I dealt with was friendly enough and did his best to keep me updated
every day. But there were only so many times I could rearrange my entire
schedule to make myself available for him to show up. All that did was make me
wonder whether the actual service would be as dependable. Worse, the
fact that it took so long to get me connected meant that the promotional deal I
signed up expired. I only figured this out when I noticed that my debit order
amount was set to go off at a higher price. Did Webafrica have any intention of
letting me know about this change? Or were they hoping I wouldn’t notice when
extra money went out of my account? Incidentally,
when I asked the sales department to honour the original price, they said it
wouldn’t be possible unless I talked to the “Provisioning team” as “they will
know what happened about the status of your installation”. I’m still waiting for
that team to get back to me, much like I’m still waiting for the Operations
team to contact me after saying that “you should receive a call today” more
than a week ago. Key lesson: Only make promises
you can keep and keep all the promises you make. This is common sense
trust-building advice that applies to life in general too. After all
these delays, my faith in Webafrica and Openserve was at an all-time low. So I
went to Twitter to ask if anyone could recommend alternatives. Almost
immediately, Webafrica replied to say that they’d “escalated to the Operations
department to assist with an urgent update on your order”. Soon after that I
got a series of phone calls that I didn’t hear and therefore didn’t answer. Webafrica’s
response? “Our teams have attempted to give you a call on the mobile number
listed on your profile but you were unreachable”. Here’s what
I don’t understand: what’s the point of calling someone three times in a row
and then concluding that they’re unreachable? If someone doesn’t answer when
you first try to get through, it’s possible that they were in another room and
rushed to reach the phone but got there on the last ring. In that case, calling
them a second time makes sense. But calling over and over again when it’s clear
that they’re not available is just silly. In other words, why call three times
in three minutes and then give up when you have a better chance by calling
three times spread over three hours? Also, why
not leave a message? I don’t know why so many companies and people seem to have
a vendetta against voicemail – maybe I didn’t get the memo about that – but I’m
not in the habit of returning random missed calls from unknown people who don’t
bother to leave details about who was calling or what it was about. In Webafrica’s
case, a voicemail with a direct number I could contact (rather than the generic
call centre number that would force me to go through a maze of responses just
to talk to a human being) would have helped. Another
option would have been for them to send me an email. And yet this is another
area where so many companies fail. So many brands send out communication from
addresses like donotreply@pleasegoaway.com, making it hard for people to reach
them. Then there are those who ask people on Twitter to “send us a DM!” but
don’t follow said people so that they can do just that. Why not have real email
addresses that people can respond to, or set up your Twitter account to accept
direct messages from everyone? Yes, it does mean you might get a flood of
automated responses every time you send out an email and possibly get hit with
social media spam. But maybe it’s worth it if it means your customers can reach
you. Key lesson: If you
want to build a relationship, you have to be available. Otherwise you might as well
be walking around with your fingers in your ears, all the while wondering why
nobody wants to be your friend. My
experience with Webafrica and Openserve speaks to a growing problem with
customer service. Specifically, it seems that many departments are measuring
and rewarding their employees on efficiency instead of effectiveness. It’s all
about how quickly they can close cases instead of how well they do so.
Unfortunately, in the rush to deal with as many customers as possible in the
fastest possible time, many companies are failing. That’s why
you often get such generic responses to your questions that you wonder if they
were written by a robot. Yes, there are times when a standard suggestion to
reboot your computer or log out and log back in fixes the problem. But
sometimes it’s like customer service people aren’t even reading your questions
and are just throwing ideas at the wall to see if one sticks, or else asking
you to do so many things – send a screenshot, confirm your operating system, provide
the blood type of your unborn child – because they want you to just give up. Fortunately,
there will come a time in the not-too-distant future when artificial
intelligence will be able to understand exactly what we’re asking and reply in
an accurate (and timely) way. Until then, customer service agents need to be
better than mere chatbots who regurgitate responses just because one customer’s
problem is kind of almost nearly like another’s. Key lesson: If you’re
in a rush to fix a problem, it could end up taking longer than if you just slow
down to understand it properly first. It’s all about sharpening your saw before
you cut down the tree. If there’s
one thing to take from this article it’s that being human means being human.
Some of the best customer service I’ve experienced has come from places where
it’s clear that the individuals are empowered to respond in a way that makes
sense, no matter how long it takes. (There are so many great examples of this
from Zappos, including a customer service agent who once
stayed on the phone with a client for over 10 hours.) The worst customer
service is from people who you can tell are just following the scripted rules and
can’t take the initiative to think or act for themselves. For
example, I placed an online order with Clicks a few months ago and, because it
took a while to arrive, later got an apology together with a voucher for a
future purchase. Contrast that to my experience with Loot, where I had to pay
to return an incorrect item (unlike Takealot where returns are free) and where
it took thirteen days (13!) to respond to my query about a recurring payment
error with a one line “kindly contact your bank”. Similarly, instead of going
the extra mile to make it up to me (for example, by offering the first month
free to compensate for the delay), Webafrica didn’t seem bothered. It’s a pity
that things didn’t work out the way I expect them to; I’ve always liked the
simplicity of Webafrica’s offering and their quirky marketing. Maybe they’ve
just become too big to care, much like many of the other providers I reached
out to on Twitter to ask if they could offer their services instead. (Only a
handful of smaller companies replied.) Ultimately,
even though we’re all feeling drained by the emotional mess of the last several
months, now’s a great time to stand out as a brand that shows a genuine
interest. Who knows? Maybe you’ll end up with a customer who sings your praises
rather than one who regrets ever giving you a chance. Key lesson: At a time when so few people seem to care about their work, this is the perfect opportunity to stand out as someone who does. Yes, it takes effort. But all worthwhile things do. Eugene Yiga was born in South Africa and has lived in this amazing country all his life. And even though he studied finance, accounting, and classical piano at the University of Cape Town, he now works as a copywriter, journalist, and blogger with two and a half years of full-time experience in branding, communications, and market research. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.