The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s BIG move: New South African stock image site hungry for local talent Marketers and advertising agencies know
all too well there is a need for real South African stock images to engage
local markets. Now there is a proudly South African
stock image site on the scene that meets the brief. Photie is a platform for royalty-free
photographs, illustrations, and videos that is the brainchild of marketer and
business owner, Alison Blair. Covid-19 created a shift in her thinking. “I realised I needed to focus on my
creative process and generate something meaningful,” she said. It was during
this time that Blair shifted an exciting concept from ideation to reality. Drawn
by South Africa’s distinctive culture, Photie aims to be as unique as the
country’s stories. As the Mpumalanga representative for the
Businesswoman of the Year Awards presented by the South African Businesswomen’s
Association, Blair is fiercely passionate about entrepreneurship, and with 20
years of diverse marketing experience, she has decided to personally fund the
development of the platform. “Photie is a valiant step for me as a business
owner to create something important for South Africans and the South African
creative industry,” she said. Photie enables local photographers and
creatives who contribute to the platform’s image library to earn a 50% royalty
on contribution, compared to other sites that start at 15%. Users get to
support local talent and help grow this sector. With a strict approval process in place
for all of content uploaded to the platform, Photie prides itself on offering
top quality images to ensure user searches yield the desired results. As contributors earn a royalty for each
image downloaded, they are incentivised to continue adding to their personal
portfolios, thereby increasing the image library with photos, videos,
illustrations, or designs that will appeal to users. By enabling local artists
to earn an income from their contributions, not only will brands and agencies
be supporting local talent, but they will acquire content that is relevant to
the local market. “The content is by South Africans for
South Africa, so it is truly authentic and will allow advertising to be more
relevant to its audience,” said Blair. “We’re not proudly South African, we’re
pumped because we are South African, and we are the reflection of our
uniqueness.” People moves Motheo
Matsau appointed as acting CEO of Ster-Kinekor Theatres Motheo Matsau,
who was appointed as Deputy CEO in September 2019, will take over the reins form
Ryan Williams effective 1 November 2020. Williams has been the CEO since
January 2018. Matsau has
been with the company since May 2016 and was sales and marketing executive
prior to his appointment as Deputy CEO. Before Ster-Kinekor, Matsau worked for
several leading South African and multinational companies including Unilever,
Standard Bank and Multichoice. Commenting
on his appointment, Matsau said he was grateful for the confidence shown in him
by Williams, the Chairman and the Board. “I look forward to the challenge and
am certain that working with Andrew and our superb management team we will
continue to grow our business after the impact of Covid-19 has passed. I look
forward to continuing to invite Guests to our cinemas to experience the world
of movies in the best way possible for many years to come”. Williams
has tendered his resignation to commence a new chapter in his life with his
family in Australia but will be consulting back to the business on a few key
strategic projects on a part-time basis. Natalie
Roos to head Positive Dialogue’s specialist influencer division Positive
Dialogue, the award-winning, new-generation PR and communications agency in the
DUKE Group of companies, has announced the launch of its specialist influencer
marketing business division that will be headed by influencer and renowned
content creator, Natalie Roos, as it gears up to offer its clients
best-of-breed communication solutions in a post-pandemic world. Positive
Dialogue, which scooped top honours in the Influencer Marketing category at the
2020 New Generation Digital & Social Media Awards for its One Plus 7T Pro
campaign, launches the division this month. It will offer its unique hybrid blend
of authentic human connection underpinned by artificial intelligence and
machine learning, a move that managing director Tracy Jones said hits the sweet
spot where being culturally relevant overlaps with data and insights. Roos has
had a glittering career, with most of it spent in the travel sector, on
influencer campaigns for major tourism brands such as Reunion Island Tourism
and the Stellenbosch Wine Route. Her team is boosted by the arrival of PR
professional Crystal Raman, who joins as campaign manager, while Kasheefa Meyer
shores up the execution arm of the new division. Craig Naicker appointed as group MD at CWDi CWDi has announced the appointment of Craig Naicker to the role of group managing director. Naicker joined CWDi at the start of 2019 as head of
client service while also being actively involved with the strategic
development of the group. During this period, he developed opportunities for
substantial growth leading to his promotion as group MD. CWDi CEO, Janine Kruger said, “Craig has been with CWDi for 18
months and has brought both above the line experience and leadership
potential. He is well liked and respected by the team and I look forward
to the value and growth he will bring to the team and the business in his new
role.” Commenting on his new role, Naicker
said: “As managing director, I will continue to push the business forward,
driving the company values and culture, which make CWDi the business it is. Apart from
driving the business strategy, my other goals are to drive collaboration both
internally and externally, change the way agency models are viewed and
collaborate with other agencies for a better client offering.” IAB
South Africa digital content marketing committee announced Following a process of nomination of industry
leaders representing advertisers, agencies, publishers and media specialists,
the IAB South Africa has announced the members of its digital content marketing
committee, led by Sarah Browning-de Villiers, Chief Content Officer at Machine_
(Publicis Groupe). The newly formed committee will encourage and develop
content marketing in South Africa as a unique, independent discipline and an
effective tool for brands to communicate with their audiences. An increasingly
critical marketing strategy to build authentic, long-lasting relationships with
customers for brands, content marketing has lacked distinct representation in
the digital marketing landscape of South Africa – this committee hopes to
transform this. Business moves Honoris
United Universities welcomes Red & Yellow Creative School of Business to
its Pan-African network Honoris
United Universities, Africa’s first and largest pan-African network of private
higher education institutions, has welcomed Red &
Yellow Creative School of Business into its network in
South Africa, serving to enhance its provision of education in the advertising,
marketing and design professions, with added focus on the digital skills and
creative thinking required to thrive and to be competitive in the 21st Century
world of work. The
announcement is particularly welcomed as Honoris’ Education for Impact mission
continues to expand in the midst of the global challenges of Covid-19. As a
member institution of Honoris, Red & Yellow Creative School of Business
will complement Honoris’ employability agenda, a continent-wide strategy
focusing on entrepreneurial and workplace skills and credentials. The
addition of Red & Yellow further reaffirms Honoris’ position as the
preeminent pan-African private higher education network focused on educating
the next generation of African leaders and entrepreneurs with industry-ready 21st Century
skills. With expertise in such
as Jason Harrison and Faheem Chaudry of M&C Saatchi and Abel; Veli Ngubane,
Avatar; Dorcas Onyango, Coca Cola; and Steph van Niekerk of Grey JHB, ranked as
SA’s No. 1 Creative Director and No. 1 Copywriter in 2019. Moments to melt into with the Good Things Guy
#AeroFeelGoodFridays Aero has launched a campaign to celebrate the good
things in South Africa and hopes to share all the ‘Moments to Melt Into’ to
spread feel-good stories across the nation. The Moments to Melt Into will be
shared every Friday where ordinary South Africans will be celebrated for doing
extraordinary things. In a time where negativity is higher than ever, we
need to celebrate the moments that make us smile and spread love. These moments
make the world a better place. Now more than ever, South Africans are looking for
good news stories to lift our spirits and counter the negativity that 2020 has
become synonymous with. To this end, Brent Lindeque, South Africa’s Good Things
Guy, has teamed up with Nestle’s Aero brand to launch a new web series entitled
Moments to Melt Into which focuses on ordinary South Africans doing
extraordinary things. The series will comprise episodes of three to four
minutes each where Lindeque shares a round up good news stories focused on
ordinary South Africans doing good within their community, or for the
betterment of their fellow South Africans. Moments to Melt Into will be
available on all Good Things Guy’s digital platforms including Facebook,
Twitter and Instagram. Mantsho teams up with 1st For Women and Zozibini
Tunzi for an exclusive range of Fearless statement Ts Mantsho, a clothing label established by Palesa
Mokubung in 2014, has launched an exclusive collaboration with 1st for Women
Insurance and Miss Universe, Zozibini Tunzi to encourage South African women to
live fearlessly. This collaboration coincides with the launch of 1st
for Women’s new fearless campaign that features Tunzi – an icon of strength,
courage and resilience. The T’s feature Mantsho’s characteristic and
quintessential bold prints symbolising a path of a woman who is ready to
deconstruct in order to rebuild and is emblazoned with the word “fearless” –
making them a statement T with a confident edge. 20% of the proceeds from the
sale of the T’s will be donated to the 1st for Women Foundation to assist in
the fight against women abuse. Mokubung says that the designs represent courage
coupled with a good dose of colour and charisma. The 1st for Women X Mantsho X Zozibini T’s can be
purchased via: Africarise – Sandton City Boomtown
enhances its digital service offering Following the promotion of Cayleigh Zambonini to
digital integration manager, Lisa Snyman to digital project manager and Liesl
Silverman to digital copywriter, as well as the appointment of Brenda Ulay as
community manager and content creator, Boomtown has enhanced its digital
service offering to ensure a ‘digital first’ mindset across the business and
for its clients. At the same time, these appointments have added
extra heft to an existing power team and created an all-women digital
department; a first for the agency. The other women in the division are Senior
Social Media Manager Marion Marais, Digital Product Manager and User Experience
Specialist Helna Brown, Art Director with a digital focus Tamarin Fraenkel and
Digital Strategist Lara-Anne Derbyshire. According to Zambonini, Boomtown’s forward-thinking
and agile structure fosters effective creative and digital expansion to achieve
efficiencies and measured results, with digital at the core and the addition of
an in-house content studio. Asked about the women-strong status of the
department, Zambonini said that putting together an all-woman team was never
the objective, but the best applicants just happened to be women. The Lime Envelope
launches new offering As lockdown restrictions ease to a greater extent under Level 1, thousands of small-to-medium businesses (SMEs) will be vying for consumers’ attention. Sarah Martin, agency director at The Lime Envelope public relations and events agency,believes that the antidote to a crowded marketplace is the magic of great PR, and is launching a specialised new service to bring out the best in SMEs. “South African entrepreneurs and business owners
are finally emerging from lockdown after a difficult six months. They have
survived and are ready to thrive again,” said Martin. “But standing out is
going to be quite a challenge as everyone pushes for business. So, The Lime
Envelope team put our heads together to formulate a ‘cure’ to the clutter that
is specifically aimed at SMEs, who don’t have the PR budgets that corporates
do”. The Lime Envelope’s SME PR in a Boxsolution offers
smaller businesses an affordable six-month campaign that is strategically
geared at getting maximum exposure in the COVID-19 economy. The package includes one press release a month; a
monthly Google Ads/Keyword campaign to improve SEO; four social media posts
every month, and a monthly email campaign to existing and potential customers. New features for Facebook Groups to Help
Communities Stay Connected Facebook has launched a range of powerful new tools
and programmes for Facebook Group administrators and leaders, to make it easier
for people to engage, discover and support communities. The new features
introduced in celebration of the 10-year anniversary of Facebook Groups,
include the Brand Collabs Manager, which
assists admins to make money from public groups. “As we continue to move through the Covid-19
crisis, we’re reminded how online communities can be a lifeline while people
practise social distancing,” said Kiran Yoliswa, community partnerships lead,
Facebook Middle East and Africa. “More than 25 million people in South Africa
are members of Facebook groups active in the past month, coming together to
talk about their interests, learn new things, be entertained, support each
other and make connections. With that in mind, we are excited to offer new
features that will help admins and groups spark discussions.” Red Hat unveils enterprise customer advocacy programme, Red Hat Accelerators Red Hat, Inc., a provider of open source
solutions, has announced the introduction of its enterprise customer advocacy
programme, Red Hat Accelerators. Drawing on its extensive community-building
history, the customer-facing programme serves as a natural extension of its
customer-focused approach to both its open source and enterprise product
portfolio, enacted to form deeper and more engaging relationships with its
customers. Red Hat experts, product teams and even
business leadership were included as a way for customers to voice their
critical product and solution feedback, provide the business and product teams
valuable insights, and help influence and improve development. The programme
also integrates a continued focus on customer advocacy and maintaining an
environment that encourages public advocacy through blogging, social media,
speaking engagements and more. Stellar line-up announced for The Directors Event on 20 October #TDE2020 Following news that Eskom CEO, Andre de Ruyter, and Chairman of the
Absa Group, Wendy Lucas-Bull,
will be headline speakers at the 6th edition of The
Directors Event, the full line-up of speakers for the half day
online conference has been announced. The Directors Event
– billed as ‘SA’s biggest board meeting’ – is futured by BCX and presented in
association with the Institute of Directors in South Africa (IoDSA). It will be
streamed live online on 20 October. The theme for this year’s conference is Building a sustainable new normal,
where senior management and C-level executives from South Africa’s business
community will unpack major issues affecting the country’s economy. Andile Khumalo
– MC for the event – will introduce Sunday
Times editor S’thembiso Msomi
and BCX CEO Jonas Bogoshi, after
which the keynote address by de Ruyter and the annual Chairman’s Report by
Lucas-Bull will follow. To register for this free online event,
visit: //arenaevents.africa/events/the-directors-event/ Zapper exits Masterpass interoperability Following last week’s FNB announcement of the
rollout of their QR-enabled Speedpoint terminals, some confusion as to the
status of the current and future interoperability within the QR code ecosystem
has arisen. Independent mobile payments, loyalty and rewards
platform, Zapper, has exited their interoperability agreement with Masterpass,
Mastercard’s QR payment service, which powers FNB’s Scan to Pay. The interoperability
will cease effective from 25 October 2020, following the culmination of the
90-day notice period. “The unfortunate result is that this will affect
not only FNB, but all entities reliant on Masterpass as the ‘base’ for their
payment apps and QR acceptance. Post the decision to terminate our
interoperability with Masterpass, we have been working tirelessly behind the
scenes, reaching out to all necessary parties, to mitigate any adverse
effects,” explained Brett White, CEO of Zapper. “Zapper is committed to
broadening QR payment adoption within South Africa, in partnership with other
QR affiliated providers; but it must be done in a sustainable way that
safeguards user experience.” Grobank, Access Bank in gateway to Africa
transaction In an exciting move expected to deliver a robust
banking operation that connects key African markets, Access Bank Plc has
entered into a definitive agreement with the holding company of Grobank
Limited, GroCapital Holdings Limited, to invest up to R400 million into the
Bank over the next two years. The investment will be made in two tranches with
an initial cash consideration for a 49% shareholding, and a second transaction,
increasing to a majority equity stake, with both tranches subject to various
regulatory approvals. Grobank CEO Bennie van Rooy said the transaction
remains subject to shareholder, regulatory and Competition Commission
approvals, and that the initial transaction is expected to become unconditional
on or before 31 October 2020. Making
moves Huawei Joburg Day is back and online Huawei
and 947 have announced the return of Huawei Joburg Day with a virtual twist.
The iconic event – one of the biggest musical events on the SA music calendar –
will return on 23 October with brand fans being invited to enjoy the epic
two-hour event virtually via web, social and on the 94.7 radio frequency.
Huawei Joburg Day is styled by the Huawei Watch Fit. Music
fans can look forward to an amazing
line-up of top local artists on the 23rd of October at 17:00. Thando Makhunga, 947 station manager, said the artists are
excited to give Joburgers a virtual experience like no other. The two-hour
event will execute from two locations. The first location is Blueberry Hotel,
famous for its stunning 360-degree view of Johannesburg. The second location is
a customised studio that allows for the virtual spectacular to be seamlessly
produced. The objective is to create an integrated audio-visual experience for
listeners, as well as a world-class production for artists. Pan
African Media Research Organisation celebrates 21 years This year Pan African Media Research
Organisation (PAMRO) celebrates its 21st anniversary – that’s 21 years of
research experts from across Africa, and the rest of the world coming together
to exchange knowledge and to learn from one another’s successes and failures.
Registrations for the annual conference on 27,28,29 October are now open. It is
ideally suited to individuals, brands or companies interested in media research
activities. Sifiso Falala, president of PAMRO,
explained: “For the first time in all these years we will not be able to get
together in person but we are going to go ahead with a virtual conference. And,
another first for us is that all our sessions will be free of charge. The goal
of the organisation is to harmonise research methodologies and encourage
excellence in the industry. We are also working toward building a continental
media research database.” The 2020 e-conference is aptly themed
‘The story of African resilience’. “We have people from all over Africa and
around the globe joining us, so the best suitable time to run our daily
sessions to ensure maximum attendance is from 11am to 13h00 CAT (Central
African Time) (GMT+2),” said Falala. If you are interested in attending the
e-conference made possible by Telmar, Nielsen, Borderless Access and DSTV Media
Sales, register here:  www.pamro.org JIL leaders
programme and scholarships at UCLAN Following a pandemic-induced pause, UCLAN is now accepting applications for it part-time blended learning Journalism Innovation & Leadership postgraduate course, starting in January 2021. UCLAN has worked closely with industry advisory
board to ensure the programme connects the development needs of employees with
the current innovation challenges of their employers  Participants will
also be offered mentorship by the likes of  Lisa MacLeod, Joanna Geary of
Twitter, Alison Gow of Reach Plc, Jethro Goko of Associated Newspapers and Ian
MacGregor of the Telegraph,” said Scholarships are available, which might be of particular interest to folks in South Africa. Information can be accessed here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.