[PRESS OFFICE] Around 3.5 billion people use social media on a daily basis. This equates to a staggering 45% of the global population; 73% of marketers believe that social media has been influential in promoting their brand as well as increasing sales. And 54% of customers are using social media to research products before they buy anything. These are just three of the statistics that show what an impact social media is having on the world and what a significant communications vehicle it is. With people spending, on average, three hours per day on social media, you are guaranteed to find at least part of your audience on social media at any time of the day. And with most of them researching products, you need to make sure that your products are on social media for them to find. Merely opening an account and
then posting a few things here and there isn’t enough. “In fact,” says Lisa
Schneider: managing director of the Digital School of Marketing,
“you’ll do more harm than good with this way of doing things.” If you’re inconsistent on social
media and don’t properly portray your brand’s
voice, you won’t attract your ideal customer. Remember that the person browsing
their social media feeds clicks through to your post and your website because
they are interested in what you have to say and who you are. “So, if what you
post on social media doesn’t line up with your website, you’ll alienate these
visitors,” continues Schneider. So before you embark on your
social media journey, put together a strategy. This doesn’t have to be a
100-page document (actually, it shouldn’t because people won’t read it) but it
needs to outline your way forward. A lot of marketers and business
owners give up on social media because they think that it isn’t working.
However, nine times out of 10, the reason why it doesn’t work is that the
incorrect social media platform has been chosen for the company. For example,
if you’re a B2B brand, you should be concentrating your efforts on LinkedIn.
However, B2C brands should look at making a considerable investment in Facebook
and Instagram. As a business, you can’t afford not to be on social media – this is where your customers are. However, if you want to see tangible social media results, you need to have a solid strategy in place and create engaging content. The Digital School of Marketing (DSM) is an online provider of accredited digital marketing education, specifically SEO and copywriting courses, which will allow you to get an edge over your competitors. To find out more, visit our website on www.digitalschoolofmarketing.co.za. Call us on 0861 428 710 or e-mail: info@digitalschoolofmarketing.co.za. Join the conversations: Instagram | Facebook | Twitter DSM, the Digital School of Marketing, is South Africa’s preferred provider of accredited digital marketing education. Our educational institution is unique as all of our marketing courses are accredited by the MICT SETA ( Media, Information and Communication Technologies Sector Education and Training Authority) and we’re a member of the IAB South Africa. The Digital School of Marketing is also an internationally endorsed member of the CPD services body of the United Kingdom, rendering all courses internationally transferable and endorsed. We offer the most extensive array of digital marketing courses available in the market, at the most competitive prices. All courses have easy and flexible payment options, making learning highly sought-after digital marketing skills, within everyone’s reach. All courses are comprehensively designed and ideally suited to the demands of the digital marketing industry. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.