Kgaugelo Maphai’s recently launched Matrix Communications Group and Quinton Jones’ TMI Media have joined forces as part of a growth strategy that will allow them to “compete and punch above our weight by giving clients integrated solutions while being as agile as possible”. The partnership, announced today, sees a new 100% local and black majority owned business
enter the market, driven by an experienced team with in-depth knowledge of the
South African market. Maphai is the former managing director of The MediaShop
(Johannesburg) while Jones has run media divisions at numerous big agencies
including TBWA Hunt Lascaris and most recently as group managing director of
Carat. Speaking to
The Media Online, the partners said in a written response to our questions that
they were open to working
with any clients that truly believe in giving innovative, accountable,
locally-owned agencies an opportunity to participate in pitches or a seat at
the table. “Like any other
media agency, we will be on the look-out for any opportunities to grow our
business. The immediate benefit for clients to work with us will be competitive
pricing, impactful, measurable campaigns, and a compliant business,” they said. Jones
said he couldn’t think of anyone better to partner with and to help us take the
business to the next level in the journey. “I have always respected Kgaugelo
and the fact that he puts people and agency culture first, resonates with me.
I’m excited about the future and what this partnership and the Group will
deliver for our growth,” Jones said. Maphai
believes it made sense to find one of the best, local, independent media
agencies to partner with. “Quinton and his team have consistently punched above
their weight. I’m impressed by their ability to win awards and clients in
the last couple of years,” he said. “Our group strategy is to partner with businesses
that are owner-led and managed, and who are experienced, passionate, driven to
deliver great results for clients. TMI Media certainly fits the bill and
together, we hope to achieve our ambitious plans. We look forward to the
opportunities this partnership will provide.” With
the world living alongside the Covid-19 pandemic, it’s a tough time for
business. “We’ve been fortunate thus far to have
survived the initial impact of  Covid-19
pandemic. We’ve always put our people first and have made no staff cuts or
salary reductions during this time. We believe this has primarily been because
of prudent financial management of the business and importantly, we have walked
this challenging journey with our clients and believe we will get through this
together,” Jones and Maphai said. “Our strategy is to offer prospective clients
cost effective, performance-based results and assist them in acquiring new
customers in this evolving consumer market. We are eternal optimists and
believe brands will have to continue engaging with their customers and as such,
marketing will continue to play a critical role within companies to keep them
competitive.” Competing against the huge, globally owned agencies has always been a hard slog for South African independents, but there are plenty of pros, which is what Maphai and Jones will play to their advantage. Following the outbreak of the global Covid-19
pandemic, localisation has become even more important,” they stressed. “The
reality is that the world has been reset and consumer behaviour has changed in
many respects over the last few months. Many brands have to go back to basics
especially those that have been making it ‘by default’. We are all now forced
to re-understand our consumers and what their needs and fears are and quite
frankly no research about a European, American or Asian country will be
relevant to a South African business today because this pandemic has impacted
every country differently.” Their approach has always been about local
insights and knowledge and that is what is going to be at the centre of brands
rebuilding their USP. “Our key advantage is that we understand the South
African consumer landscape by province, culture and various market segments and
this will allow us to effectively connect brands using traditional and
unconventional channels to reach the majority of consumers in the country to
drive growth,” said Maphai and Jones. This they
will do in an economy that is under severe strain. Finance minister Tito
Mboweni delivered his medium term budget policy statement on Wednesday, and it
wasn’t pretty. “Minister Mboweni is stuck between a rock and
a hard place,” the partners said. “He tried his best to deliver a balanced
budget that the country needs at this present moment. We believe that there
will be clients looking for agencies that offer innovative, insightful and cost
effective solutions. The bigger agencies generally carry high overhead costs
and need to satisfy global shareholders with good returns on an annual basis
and that doesn’t apply us.” New client contracts and potential existing
renewals will be contracted within the new entity and will continue trading as
TMI Media, they said. The group has plans to open an office in Gauteng and to also conquer key markets in the rest of the continent through a strategic partnership which is currently being finalised. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.