The Media Online’s weekly round up of people, account and business moves in media. This week’s
BIG move: INMA Africa Media Summit to focus on the business of journalism The International News Media Association (INMA) is
hosting an Africa Media Summit on 19-20 November focused on accelerating the
business of journalism and featuring case studies from throughout the
continent. The INMA summit aims to surface the best practices
of Africa’s diverse and fast-evolving news industry, with special emphasis on
elevating integrity and trust and accelerating transformation in turbulent
times. “INMA continues to expand our footprint worldwide,
and we’re honoured to help grow an African media community with our November
summit,” INMA CEO Earl Wilkinson said. “This will be the first of many ventures
in Africa, and I know publishers will appreciate new connections to colleagues
from around the world.” The summit will focus on ‘Africa’s media stories told by Africans’. Among the first speakers announced are: International guest speakers include Kimberly
Johnson, editor of the CFO Journal/Wall Street Journal, and INMA CEO Earl J.
Wilkinson. South African Broadcast Corporation (SABC) news
anchor Peter Ndoro will moderate the two-day summit. Key themes to be covered include: By registering for the INMA Africa Media Summit,
attendees will gain access to the livestream and all summit recordings and
presentations. The Africa Media Summit is free, and companies may
sign up an unlimited number of delegates. Complete Summit information,
including online registration, may be found at here. People moves Ads24 restructures sales and marketing team In light of the ever-changing media landscape and
customer expectations, Ads24 has implemented far-reaching changes aimed at
achieving a more collaborative approach to client needs. The key factors driving
the repurposed structure are the need for agility, accessibility and
creativity. The re-energised team is headed by seasoned sales
professional Tasmia Ismail. The top team will focus their skills and
experience on a number of key future-focused aspects within the media sales and
marketing process, all aimed at ensuring a customer-centric, integrated product
solution, packaged to meet client specific objectives. “South Africa’s media sales environment is dealing with seismic changes brought about by Covid-19, the bleak economic outlook and lightning-fast technological developments and we want to ensure that our client-facing teams are geared to meet these challenges now and in the future through collaboration coupled with the highest levels of sales service,” said Ismail In order to equip the sales force with an agile
and a responsive service to clients these are top team members. FCB Joburg
appoints Struan Bourquin to lead Toyota SA account FCB Joburg has appointed Struan Bourquin to lead
its business on the Toyota South Africa account, one it has held since 1961
when the agency (then Lindsay Smithers) was asked to launch the first Toyota
model to be sold in South Africa, the Toyopet. Making the announcement, FCB & Hellocomputer
Johannesburg Group Managing Director, Thabang Skwambane, said Bourquin’s
impressive tenure at FCB Joburg make him a shoo-in for the position. “With 15 years’ experience in the advertising and
communications industry and a Honours Degree in Brand Leadership, Struan has
positively contributed to the fortunes of numerous market-leading brands
including Coca-Cola, Vodacom, Lexus, FNB, Sasol, Famous Brands, Tiger Brands
and Emirates. “He was also on the team that made FCB Joburg one of The Coca-Cola Company’s 10 roster agencies responsible for developing global campaigns, and here helped develop two regional (MENA/SSA) integrated campaigns for Sprite in 2016, a global integrated campaign for Coca-Cola in 2018 and the global digitally-led integrated campaign for Fanta in 2019,” he said. Ligwalagwala FM sends condolences to Kingdom
Mkhabela’s family Ligwalagwala FM, a station of the South African
Broadcasting Corporation (SABC), has announced “with deep sadness” the passing
of Sifiso Kingdom Mkhabela, popularly known as ‘Kingdom’ on the airwaves. He
passed away in the early hours of 26 October 2020 and was a committed member of
the Ligwalagwala FM family. In April 2018, following gruelling auditions, Mkhabela
joined the SABC radio station with a new breed of young presenters. He presented
an afternoon show on Saturdays known as ‘Sisonke Midday Grooves (SMG)’ between 12:00
– 14:30 as well as a jazz show called ‘Weekend Wrap’ on Sundays 22:00 –
00:00, from which he had just knocked off when he met his untimely passing. His
versatility and talents were extended to the digital marketing team, emceeing
and DJ-ing at various station events. Mkhabela was a true ambassador of the station who
never missed an opportunity to celebrate his colleagues on their achievements,
both on the microphone and from behind the camera, as one of the drivers behind
the station’s growing social media platforms. The SABC has extended its heartfelt condolences to
the Mkhabela family and friends, the faithful listeners and the communities of
Clau-Clau, Barberton, Mataffin and Tekatakho. The station finds itself at a
loss. Gabi Ngcobo appointed as acting curator for
Javett-UP Art Centre The Javett Art Centre at the University of
Pretoria (Javett-UP) has announced that Gabi Ngcobo has been appointed acting
curatorial director following Christopher Till’s stepping down from the role of
Founding and Curatorial Director with effect from the end of October 2020. She holds a BA in Fine Arts (University of
KwaZulu-Natal) and a master’s in Curatorial Studies (Bard College, New York,
United States). She is a co-founder of 3rd Eye Vision artists’ collective, the
Centre for Historical Re-enactments, and NGO – Nothing Gets Organised
collaborative platforms. Business moves Capitec partners with music streaming service,
Joox South Africa’s largest digital bank, Capitec, has
partnered with popular music streaming service, JOOX, to provide its clients
with a Live Better benefit of 30% off of the app’s monthly subscription fee. From 28 October 2020, Capitec clients can enjoy a
number of VIP benefits at a discounted monthly subscription fee (usually R59.99
per month, now R41.99) when paying with a Capitec Card and registering on joox.com. Keith Lennox, divisional executive for business solutions
at Capitec, said, “JOOX is the right music streaming partner for Capitec and we
like the fact that local music is given prominence in their vast catalogue.
They have a strong focus on promoting and supporting local talent, which aligns
with the principles that underpin Live Better. The JOOX team’s enthusiasm and
professionalism has been a pleasure to work with”. Brett Loubser, CEO of Tencent Africa Services, says that they are very proud of what they have managed to achieve by launching JOOX into the South African market, with the music streaming space being very competitive. Yoyo and wiGroup combine to create global Yoyo-branded payments and loyalty powerhouse Yoyo, the leading UK-based marketing, payments and loyalty company, and wiGroup, the South African-based mobile rewards software company, announced today that they are joining forces to create a global loyalty company under the Yoyo brand. The new Yoyo will service existing and new clients through its combined operations in the UK, Europe, Africa, and Australasia. The company has raised additional primary funding from SaltPay, supported by existing investors IP Group. The two companies each offered a variety of payment, loyalty and reward Software as a Service solutions to their clients, serving major brands like Kauai, vida e caffè, Burger King, KFC, and Dunkin Donuts across the UK, Europe and in South Africa. The new Yoyo will focus on high demand customer engagement and loyalty products, which drive both new customers, repeat business, as well as increased frequency and ticket-size to merchants. Yoyo co-founder and CEO, Michael Rolph and wiGroup co-founder and CEO Bevan Ducasse have been working for a few months to bring the companies together. New publishers breathe fresh life into OBJEKT©
International South Africa The owners of Hybrid Media Consulting (Pty) Ltd,
Gareth and Meagan Bouwmeester, have taken over publishing the South African
edition of OBJEKT International which first launched in South Africa in 2012. With the move into the digital space, OBJEKT South Africa’s new 360 degree offering
now includes a website, digital magazine and social media, which together are
the primary platforms for the brand. All will showcase local and international
content targeted at high-net-worth individuals, business owners, C-suite
executives, and upscale urban modernists with a passion for interiors,
art/antiques, modern design and outstanding architecture. As OBJEKT© South Africa’s new publishers, they
aim to preserve the editorial integrity of the brand, by ensuring the title is
not overrun with advertising; a move which benefits not only the reader, but
the advertisers too. Following the bespoke editorial theme, customisable
advertising packages. OBJEKT© South Africa lifestyle platform
officially goes live on 1 November 2020. The print version of the magazine will
still be available quarterly through a nationwide distribution network
including Woolworths, Exclusive Books, as well as selected airport lounges and
hotels. An exact replica of the print magazine will be downloadable via
Zinio.com or Magzter.com. For more information, visit the website Pfizer appoints Eclipse Communications as its local
and Sub-Saharan media agency Following a lengthy RFP process, global
pharmaceutical company, Pfizer, has appointed the rapidly growing Eclipse
Communications as its local communications partner. The agency will manage and
execute Pfizer’s communications objectives in South Africa and sub-Saharan
Africa. Eclipse Communications’ managing director:
Johannesburg and Africa, Cheryl Reddy, said the company’s collective industry
experience, strategic and creative inputs and vast media/influencer
relationships will be the perfect combination to enhance Pfizer’s reputation
across sub-Saharan Africa. Vuyo Mjekula, communications lead for Pfizer South
Africa and SSA noted that the deciding factor for the agency’s appointment was
its attention to detail and extraordinary strategic ideas, which both parties
believe will be the key to Pfizer’s continued success in demonstrating its
commitment to patients. Serial entrepreneur Rajiv Dingra launches RD&X
Network, a global transformation network Rajiv Dingra (previously founder and CEO of
WATConsult, a digital agency part of global network Dentsu International), has announced
the launch of his latest entrepreneurial venture, RD&X Network. RD&X Network endeavors to leverage the
impending deep tech and business model disruption across marketing,
advertising, media, and business consulting with its transformational
offerings. An initial corpus of $10 million has been committed for its organic
and inorganic growth worldwide. Aiming to be a geography agnostic and
remote-first company, its expansion plans include strategic acquisitions and
investments in early-stage companies in areas of deep tech, gig economy,
mar-tech, and ad-tech. Parallelly, in-house flagship solutions are also
currently under development. Faith Nketsi’s MTV reality show renewed
for second season Faith
Nketsi is transitioning from being a
socialite and host to a business mogul as she makes major moves in season 2 of
her hit MTV reality show, Have Faith. With more hustle, more vulnerability,
and more faith than ever before, season 2 will see the reality star
attempt to transform from her sultry hosting life to building a beauty business
empire. Viewers can expect lots of drama as she tackles family, friendship, and
personal traumas. Have Faith Season
2 will premiere exclusively on MTV (DStv Channel 130) on Monday 2 November at 21:30 CAT. Cinewax partners with Magine Pro for global African
films service OAFF Since 2015, Cinewax has been promoting African
films through original programming, premieres and festivals. With original
media and event formats they have promoted African cultures accessible through
cinema. After a number of earlier online one-month festival
events and a successful crowdfunding on Kickstarter to establish and launch an
ongoing online service, Cinewax selected Magine Pro to expand the OAFF service
further on a platform built for global scaling. By entering a long-term partnership with Magine
Pro, they are now ready  to scale the service, addressing the large
African diasporas in France and Europe, and also reach new audiences across the
globe. “We are proud to be the OTT partner for this great
film service and to make African films easy accessible all over the world,” said
Matthew Wilkinson, CEO of Magine The new service houses OAFF’s full VOD movie
library and is available on web, iOS and Android platforms. App helps
simplify end-of-year fundraising Schools running fundraisers using the Karri app
are collecting more than ever before. The app provides more than 1 000 schools
across the country with technology to ensure fast, secure payments. The Karri
app is powered by Nedbank, ensuring all monies are secure. Rather than collecting cash, schools can now
create a variable donation style collection, allowing parents to donate however
much they want to the cause. These collections are sure to raise significantly
more due to the ease and convenience provided to the parent. Karri CEO Doug Hoernle said Karri enabled parents
to make safe, quick and convenient payments to their school. “Time and time
again our schools have proven that running their fundraisers on Karri has
allowed them to collect double, sometimes triple what they used to collect
pre-Karri days.” Making
moves The Advertisers – The Future Of Media with Sir Martin Sorrell, Nunu Ntshingila and Fred Roed On the 26
November, Heavy Chef is hosting two legends from the advertising industry to
cover the future of media – Sir Martin
Sorrell, founder of media giant WPP, and Nunu Ntshingila, head of Facebook Africa. Advertising is a messy business, says
Heavy Chef’s Roed. “Every day we’re bombarded with banners, posters,
billboards, signals, tweets, shares, reels and snaps. How do we navigate this
world? How do we convey meaningful messages to our customers and clients in
amongst all this noise?” He loves great advertising, however,
which is why he’s  looking forward to the
upcoming livestream, The Advertisers – The Future Of Media. The
November session is headlined by none other than Sir Martin Sorrell. Controversial, blunt, opinionated, his own
story could become a Netflix series. Sir Martin Sorrell is the founder of WPP,
the world’s largest advertising company, recently named most creative
communications company of the decade by Cannes Lions. Sorrell will be joined by the head of
Facebook Africa’s Nunu Ntshingila,
who herself spent a part of her journey at WPP-owned Ogilvy. Facebook has
become an advertising giant of a different kind that, alongside Google,
dominates the advertising platform and digital ad distribution sector. Heavy Chef CEO Fred Roed, a storyteller and advertising maven himself, will MC on
the evening. Book your place here. 702 Walk The Talk happens virtually on 8 November Talk
radio station 702’s Walk The
Talk event is a well-known highlight on the Johannesburg events calendar. Since
its inception 19 year ago, it has grown into the largest mass participation
event in the Southern hemisphere with up to 60 000 participants. Annually,
it inspires a sense of community and camaraderie as people flock to the
closed-off streets of Johannesburg. The event also inspired the brand-new 702
positioning: #LetsWalkTheTalk. This year,
Covid-19 has put an end to all mass participation events, however 702 is once
again calling on people to Walk The Talk with the station. “We decided to still do
the event, but this year we are doing it virtually and in support of those
affected by Covid-19. We want to help break the stigma associated with the
virus and in   support of those who lost
loved ones and incomes. We also want to tell the good news stories that came
out of the pandemic – the stories of hope and resilience,” said Thabisile
Mbete, 702 station manager. The 2020 virtual
edition of 702 Walk The Talk will happen on Sunday 8 November 2020. The entry
fee is R60, with a portion of each entry used to donate a mask to charity. People from
around South Africa and the world can join the walk in support for those
affected by Covid-19 by entering online at www.walkthetalk.co.za. Closing date for entries is Saturday 7
November at 17:00. IIE launches first ever brand leadership
doctorate in South Africa The Independent Institute of Education has
launched the first of its kind Doctor of Philosophy in Brand Leadership
qualification, which will provide brand leadership professionals with the
opportunity to make groundbreaking contributions to the development of the
profession on the continent and globally. “The IIE Doctor of Philosophy in Brand
Leadership is the first brand-specific doctoral qualification focused on the
niche field of Brand Leadership in South Africa.  It breaks new ground,
both locally and internationally,” said Dr Carla Enslin, head of strategy at
The IIE’s Vega, where the programme will be offered from 2021 via full-time,
part-time and distance learning. Enslin said the focus on Brand
Leadership addresses a particular social and economic imperative – the need for
innovation by brands with shared stakeholder value and values-based leadership
to create developmental opportunities for communities, organisations and the
environment. OFM hosts virtual race in support
of mental health OFM, the sound of your life in
Central South Africa, is encouraging its listeners to move on Saturday, 14
November by joining the Let’s Move virtual race, in collaboration with Mondia
Health and Wellness Centres. Run, walk or cycle along your own
five or 10 kilometre route anywhere you are between 06:00 and 18:00 to
participate. Register you’re activity for R100 on the OFM website at www.ofm.co.za before 9 November and receive a
branded T-shirt to wear during your activity. 
All proceeds will go towards the South African Depression and Anxiety
Group. Said Lindiwe Mtwentula, OFM
marketing manager: “Mental illness and the stigma surrounding it, is a critical
issue in South Africa.  This year has
been particularly rough on all of us and has had a severe effect on those with
mental health issues. Science have proved that regular exercise can have an
incredibly positive impact on mental illness. It also relieves stress, improves
memory and boosts overall mood.  What
better way to get moving than with the sound of your life!” Enter here. WTM Virtual Platform is
Now Live WTM Virtual platform, the exciting, new virtual arena for this year’s WTM London and London Travel Week, is now live and open for all registered delegates to create professional and business profiles; connect with exhibitors, trade, media and buyers; pre-scheduled meetings, and select unmissable conference sessions. WTM
Virtual will be live until 25 November, allowing attendees to familiarise
themselves with the platform before the show kicks off and catch up on any
missed content once the virtual exhibition is over. Meetings can only be
conducted during the three days of the show, which starts on 9 November. WTM
Virtual takes place on 9-11 November and will offer travel professionals the
opportunity to come together to recover, rebuild and innovate the travel
industry. SENTECH Hackathon a clarion
call for innovators to ‘hack’ the future As part of its research and innovation strategy, SENTECH is breaking down the time continuum barriers and hacking into the future with the #SENTECHHackTheFutureChallenge. The company is calling on all talented and innovative minds in the fields of technology, software development and broadcast to step up and step into the future with it. The #SENTECHHackTheFutureChallenge provides a stage for these minds, their inventions, and innovations, to compete for a chance to bring their work to life. Approximately six to eight teams will go head to head for a share of R185 000 in prize money and the opportunity for Sentech to select the winning innovation for future development. The “We believe in active corporate citizenship; we
believe in transforming the lives of South Africans and ensuring that we create
opportunities and platforms needed for the disadvantaged and underserved
communities to be economically viable and sustainable. In order to respond
appropriately to the disrupted world of business, we must disrupt ourselves as
a company and design for disruption that will bring new service offerings to
our customers,” said Mlamli Booi, SENTECH CEO. The company recently earned its
first B-BBEE level 1 rating, a testament to its commitment to transformation. Apply here: //hackthefuture2020.sentech.co.za/ For the Diary Insightful research to enable better media planning and increase your advertising ROI The Publisher Research Council pioneered Fusion in
2018 and remains at the forefront of fusing multiple media and FMCG purchase
studies to provide advertisers and media planners research data depth that they
have never had before. In this South African first, the latest Fusion dataset
contains more data points than any other media research study ever
published in South Africa. This multi Fusion will be launched via Zoom webinar on 18 November 2020 at 12:00. Click here to #readmore and book your virtual seat. The role of
pharma in South Africa’s future The social, demographic and economic context in
which the pharmaceutical industry continues to change is no secret. The sudden
emergence of COVID-19 has focused attention on the pharmaceutical industry and
the needs to research and deliver effective treatments as well as a much-needed
vaccine. The world has never been so engaged in what it takes to develop
medication. Conversations have moved away from the cost of
medicine, to the industry’s more commendable socio-economic contributions and
work done to develop vaccines and treatments. Breaking barriers, improving
efficiency and boosting investment and collaboration is key to building a
sustainable future. Join the Innovative Pharmaceutical Association of
SA (IPASA), in partnership with Business Day Dialogues as we uncover the
importance of accurate healthcare reporting, the role that pharmaceutical
companies play in not only contributing to, but resuscitating the South African
economy after the COVID-19 crisis and how to bridge the gap between the
pharmaceutical industry and media. Register here. Want to continue this conversation on The Media Online platforms? Comment on Twitter @MediaTMO or on our Facebook page. Send us your suggestions, comments, contributions or tip-offs via e-mail to glenda.nevill@cybersmart.co.za.